apps/docs/content/nodejs/how-to/customize-runtime.mdx, before:

---
title: Customise Node.js runtime environment
description: Learn how you can customise your node.js runtime environment on Zerops.
---

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/build_deploy_pipeline_custom_runtime.png"
    alt="image"
    width="100%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

import data from '@site/static/data.json';

The default Node.js runtime environment contains:

- <span>{data.alpineCurrentVersion}</span>
- selected version of Node.js selected when the runtime service was created.
- <a href="/references/cli">
    `zCLI`
  </a>
  , Zerops command line tool
- `npm`, `yarn`, `git` and `npx` tools

If you prefer the Ubuntu OS instead of Alpine, set the `<a href="/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#os">build.os</a>` attribute to `ubuntu`. To install additional packages or tools add one or more <a href="/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands-1">`run.prepareCommands`</a> commands to your `zerops.yml`.

When the first deploy with a defined `prepareCommands` attribute is triggered, Zerops will

1. create a prepare runtime container
2. optionally: [copy selected folders or files from your build container](/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#copy-folders-or-files-from-your-build-container)
3. run the `run.prepareCommands` commands in the defined order

### Command exit code

If any command fails, it returns an exit code other than 0 and the deploy is canceled. Read the [prepare runtime log](/nodejs/how-to/logs#prepare-runtime-log) to troubleshoot the error. If the command ends successfully, it returns the exit code 0 and Zerops triggers the following command. When all `prepareCommands` commands are finished, your custom runtime environment is ready for the deploy phase.

The prepare runtime container is automatically deleted after the prepare runtime phase has finished or failed.

### Custom runtime environment cache

Some packages or tools can take a long time to install. Therefore, Zerops caches your custom runtime environment after the installation of your custom packages or tools is completed. When the second or following deploy is triggered, Zerops will use the custom runtime cache from the previous deploy if following conditions are met:

1. Content of the <a href="/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#copy-folders-or-files-from-your-build-container">`build.addToRunPrepare`</a> and <a href="/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands-1">`run.prepareCommands`</a> attributes didn't change from the previous deploy
2. The custom runtime cache wasn't invalidated in the Zerops GUI.

To invalidate the custom runtime cache go to `yyy`

**// TODO screenshot**

When the custom runtime cache is used, Zerops doesn't create a prepare runtime container and executes the deployment of your application directly.

Commit message:

Fix #95 (#96)
* fix: build-process

* docs: clarification

* refractor: move customize runtime to its own page

* fix nodejs's customize-runtime

* fix title mismatch and hyperlink

* fix java build-process and customize-runtime

* fix Python's customize-runtime

* fix Go's customize-runtime

* fix PHP's customize-runtime

* fix Nginx's customize-runtime

* fix Rust's customize-runtime

* fix infastracture.mdx

* more fixes regarding #95 > 2-3

* fix build-pipeline and customize-runtime

* fix infrastructure

* fix customize-runtime

* fix customize-runtime hyperlinks

* re: add customize build environment to build-process

* Revert "re: add customize build environment to build-process"

This reverts commit 113786a20bac0b72471d6af5219c2fa60d271e76.

* feat: re-add customize runtime into build-process and fix customize-runtime

* feat: uppercased

* fix: typos

* fix: codeblocks and hyperlink conflict, it causes it to copy -> redirect.

* fix incorrect reference

* remove duplicate heading

* note

* more fixes

apps/docs/content/nodejs/how-to/customize-runtime.mdx, after:

---
title: Customize Node.js runtime environment
description: Learn how you can customise your node.js runtime environment on Zerops.
---

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/build_deploy_pipeline_custom_runtime.png"
    alt="image"
    width="100%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

import data from '@site/static/data.json';

### Runtime Environment

The default Node.js runtime environment contains:

- <span>{data.alpineCurrentVersion}</span>
- Selected version of Node.js when the runtime service was created.
- [zCLI](/references/cli)
- NPM, Yarn, Git and NPX tools

:::note
To use Ubuntu instead of the default Alpine, set the [run.os](/references/zeropsyml#os-optional-1) attribute.

Additional packages and tools can be installed using [run.prepareCommands](/references/zeropsyml#preparecommands-optional-1).
:::

When the first deploy with a defined `prepareCommands` attribute is triggered, Zerops will

1. Create a prepare runtime container
2. Optionally: [copy selected folders or files from your build container](/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#copy-folders-or-files-from-your-build-container)
3. Run the run.prepareCommands in the defined order

### Command exit code

If any command fails, it returns an exit code other than 0 and the deploy is canceled. Read the [prepare runtime log](/nodejs/how-to/logs#prepare-runtime-log) to troubleshoot the error. If the command ends successfully, it returns the exit code 0 and Zerops triggers the following command. When all `prepareCommands` commands are finished, your custom runtime environment is ready for the deploy phase.

The prepare runtime container is automatically deleted after the prepare runtime phase has finished or failed.

### Custom runtime environment cache

Some packages or tools can take a long time to install. Therefore, Zerops caches your custom runtime environment after the installation of your custom packages or tools is completed. When the second or following deploy is triggered, Zerops will use the custom runtime cache from the previous deploy if following conditions are met:

1. Content of the <a href="/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#copy-folders-or-files-from-your-build-container">build.addToRunPrepare</a> and <a href="/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands-1">run.prepareCommands</a> attributes didn't change from the previous deploy
2. The custom runtime cache wasn't invalidated in the Zerops GUI.

To invalidate the Zerops runtime cache go to your service detail in Zerops GUI, choose **Service dashboard & runtime containers** from the left menu and click on the **Open pipeline detail** button. Then click on the **Clear runtime prepare cache** button.

{/* **TODO screenshot** */}

When the custom runtime cache is used, Zerops doesn't create a prepare runtime container and executes the deployment of your application directly.
