apps/docs/content/nodejs/how-to/trigger-pipeline.mdx, before:

---
title: Trigger Node.js build & deploy pipeline
---

import Image from '/src/components/Image';

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/mind-maps/build-deploy/step-1.webp"
    darkImage="/img/mind-maps/build-deploy/step-1-dark.webp"
    alt="build deploy pipeline"
    style={{ width: '95%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

## Automatic builds and deploys from GitHub or GitLab

Integrate Zerops to your GitHub or GitLab repository and configure the automatic builds and deploys.

Follow these steps:

1. Add [zerops.yml](/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#add-zeropsyml-to-your-repository) to your repository.
2. Connect your GitHub repository or connect your GitLab repository

Then each time you create a new tag or push to a specific branch, depending on the configuration, GitHub or GitLab will initiate a new build & deploy pipeline.

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/gui/github-integration.webp"
    darkImage="/img/gui/github-integration.webp"
    alt="github integration"
    style={{ width: '95%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

:::info
You can change the build and deploy pipeline when you need to. Just simply modify the `zerops.yml` in your repository.
:::

### Skip the automatic pipeline once

To ensure that a pipeline is not triggered by your next push, add `[ci skip]` or `[skip ci]` to the commit message. It is case insensitive.

:::note
You will still see a successful delivery of a webhook in your Github/Gitlab repository as a webhook is actually triggered, but with no action.
:::

## Manual builds and deploys using Zerops CLI

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/mind-maps/build-deploy/manual-deploy.webp"
    darkImage="/img/mind-maps/build-deploy/manual-deploy.webp"
    alt="Manual Deploy Pipeline"
    style={{ width: '95%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

To start a new build & deploy pipeline manually, use the Zerops CLI.

Follow these steps:

1. Add <a href="/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#add-zeropsyml-to-your-repository">`zerops.yml`</a> to your repository.
2. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli) the Zerops command line tool.
3. Run `zcli push` command.

The `zcli push` command uploads your application code, builds and deploys your application in Zerops.

The command triggers the [build pipeline](/nodejs/how-to/trigger-pipeline) defined in `zerops.yml`. `zerops.yml` must be in the working directory. The working directory is by default the current directory and can be changed using the <br/>`--workingDir` flag.

zCLI uploads all files and subdirectories of the working directory to Zerops and starts the build pipeline. If the `.gitignore` file is found, it is interpreted and the defined files and folders will be ignored.

If you just want to deploy your application to Zerops, use the [zcli deploy](#manual-deploy-using-zerops-cli) command instead.

#### Push command parameters

```sh
Usage:
  zcli push [flags]

Flags:
      --archiveFilePath string   If set, zCLI creates a tar.gz archive with the application code in the required path relative
                                 to the working directory. By default, no archive is created.
      --deployGitFolder          If set, zCLI the .git folder is also uploaded. By default, the .git folder is ignored.
  -h, --help                     the service push command.
      --projectId string         If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                                 command is to be executed.
      --serviceId string         If you have access to more than one service, you must specify the service ID for which the
                                 command is to be executed.
      --versionName string       Adds a custom version name. Automatically filled if the VERSIONNAME environment variable exists.
      --workingDir string        Sets a custom working directory. Default working directory is the current directory. (default "./")
      --zeropsYamlPath string    Sets a custom path to the zerops.yml file relative to the working directory. By default zCLI
                                 looks for zerops.yml in the working directory.
```

zCLI commands are interactive, when you press enter after `zcli push`, you will be given a list of your projects to choose from.

:::info
You can change the build and deploy pipeline when you need to. Just simply modify the `zerops.yml` in your repository.
:::

## Manual deploy using Zerops CLI

To start only a deploy pipeline, use the Zerops CLI.

Follow these steps:

1. Add [zerops.yml](/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#add-zeropsyml-to-your-repository) to your repository. Omit the build section.
2. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli) the Zerops command line tool.
3. Run `zcli service deploy` command.

The `zcli service deploy` command uploads your application and deploys it in Zerops. Use this tool if you have your own build process. If you want to build your application in Zerops, use an [automatic](#automatic-builds-and-deploys-from-github-or-gitlab) or [manual](#manual-builds-and-deploys-using-zerops-cli) build process.

#### Deploy command parameters

```sh
Usage:
  zcli service deploy pathToFileOrDir [flags]

Flags:
      --archiveFilePath string   If set, zCLI creates a tar.gz archive with the application code in the required path relative
                                 to the working directory. By default, no archive is created.
      --deployGitFolder          Sets a custom path to the zerops.yml file relative to the working directory. By default zCLI
                                 looks for zerops.yml in the working directory.
  -h, --help                     the service deploy command.
      --projectId string         If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                                 command is to be executed.
      --serviceId string         If you have access to more than one service, you must specify the service ID for which the
                                 command is to be executed.
      --versionName string       Adds a custom version name. Automatically filled if the VERSIONNAME environment variable exists.
      --workingDir string        Sets a custom working directory. Default working directory is the current directory. (default "./")
      --zeropsYamlPath string    Sets a custom path to the zerops.yml file relative to the working directory. By default zCLI
                                 looks for zerops.yml in the working directory.
```

`pathToFileOrDir` defines a path to one or more directories and/or files relative to the working directory. The working directory is by default the current directory and can be changed using the <br/>`--workingDir` flag.

`zerops.yml` must be placed in the working directory.

:::info
You can change the deploy pipeline when you need to. Just simply modify the `zerops.yml` in your working directory.
:::

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/nodejs/how-to/trigger-pipeline.mdx, after:

---
title: Trigger Node.js build & deploy pipeline
description: Learn how to trigger build & deploy pipeline in node.js service on Zerops.
---

import Image from '/src/components/Image';

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/mind-maps/build-deploy/step-1.webp"
    darkImage="/img/mind-maps/build-deploy/step-1-dark.webp"
    alt="build deploy pipeline"
    style={{ width: '95%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

## Automatic builds and deploys from GitHub or GitLab

Integrate Zerops to your GitHub or GitLab repository and configure the automatic builds and deploys.

Follow these steps:

1. Add [zerops.yml](/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#add-zeropsyml-to-your-repository) to your repository.
2. Connect your GitHub repository or connect your GitLab repository

Then each time you create a new tag or push to a specific branch, depending on the configuration, GitHub or GitLab will initiate a new build & deploy pipeline.

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/gui/github-integration.webp"
    darkImage="/img/gui/github-integration.webp"
    alt="github integration"
    style={{ width: '95%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

:::info
You can change the build and deploy pipeline when you need to. Just simply modify the `zerops.yml` in your repository.
:::

### Skip the automatic pipeline once

To ensure that a pipeline is not triggered by your next push, add `[ci skip]` or `[skip ci]` to the commit message. It is case insensitive.

:::note
You will still see a successful delivery of a webhook in your Github/Gitlab repository as a webhook is actually triggered, but with no action.
:::

## Manual builds and deploys using Zerops CLI

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/mind-maps/build-deploy/manual-deploy.webp"
    darkImage="/img/mind-maps/build-deploy/manual-deploy.webp"
    alt="Manual Deploy Pipeline"
    style={{ width: '95%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

To start a new build & deploy pipeline manually, use the Zerops CLI.

Follow these steps:

1. Add <a href="/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#add-zeropsyml-to-your-repository">`zerops.yml`</a> to your repository.
2. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli) the Zerops command line tool.
3. Run `zcli push` command.

The `zcli push` command uploads your application code, builds and deploys your application in Zerops.

The command triggers the [build pipeline](/nodejs/how-to/trigger-pipeline) defined in `zerops.yml`. `zerops.yml` must be in the working directory. The working directory is by default the current directory and can be changed using the <br/>`--workingDir` flag.

zCLI uploads all files and subdirectories of the working directory to Zerops and starts the build pipeline. If the `.gitignore` file is found, it is interpreted and the defined files and folders will be ignored.

If you just want to deploy your application to Zerops, use the [zcli deploy](#manual-deploy-using-zerops-cli) command instead.

#### Push command parameters

```sh
Usage:
  zcli push [flags]

Flags:
      --archiveFilePath string   If set, zCLI creates a tar.gz archive with the application code in the required path relative
                                 to the working directory. By default, no archive is created.
      --deployGitFolder          If set, zCLI the .git folder is also uploaded. By default, the .git folder is ignored.
  -h, --help                     the service push command.
      --projectId string         If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                                 command is to be executed.
      --serviceId string         If you have access to more than one service, you must specify the service ID for which the
                                 command is to be executed.
      --versionName string       Adds a custom version name. Automatically filled if the VERSIONNAME environment variable exists.
      --workingDir string        Sets a custom working directory. Default working directory is the current directory. (default "./")
      --zeropsYamlPath string    Sets a custom path to the zerops.yml file relative to the working directory. By default zCLI
                                 looks for zerops.yml in the working directory.
```

zCLI commands are interactive, when you press enter after `zcli push`, you will be given a list of your projects to choose from.

:::info
You can change the build and deploy pipeline when you need to. Just simply modify the `zerops.yml` in your repository.
:::

## Manual deploy using Zerops CLI

To start only a deploy pipeline, use the Zerops CLI.

Follow these steps:

1. Add [zerops.yml](/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline#add-zeropsyml-to-your-repository) to your repository. Omit the build section.
2. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli) the Zerops command line tool.
3. Run `zcli service deploy` command.

The `zcli service deploy` command uploads your application and deploys it in Zerops. Use this tool if you have your own build process. If you want to build your application in Zerops, use an [automatic](#automatic-builds-and-deploys-from-github-or-gitlab) or [manual](#manual-builds-and-deploys-using-zerops-cli) build process.

#### Deploy command parameters

```sh
Usage:
  zcli service deploy pathToFileOrDir [flags]

Flags:
      --archiveFilePath string   If set, zCLI creates a tar.gz archive with the application code in the required path relative
                                 to the working directory. By default, no archive is created.
      --deployGitFolder          Sets a custom path to the zerops.yml file relative to the working directory. By default zCLI
                                 looks for zerops.yml in the working directory.
  -h, --help                     the service deploy command.
      --projectId string         If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                                 command is to be executed.
      --serviceId string         If you have access to more than one service, you must specify the service ID for which the
                                 command is to be executed.
      --versionName string       Adds a custom version name. Automatically filled if the VERSIONNAME environment variable exists.
      --workingDir string        Sets a custom working directory. Default working directory is the current directory. (default "./")
      --zeropsYamlPath string    Sets a custom path to the zerops.yml file relative to the working directory. By default zCLI
                                 looks for zerops.yml in the working directory.
```

`pathToFileOrDir` defines a path to one or more directories and/or files relative to the working directory. The working directory is by default the current directory and can be changed using the <br/>`--workingDir` flag.

`zerops.yml` must be placed in the working directory.

:::info
You can change the deploy pipeline when you need to. Just simply modify the `zerops.yml` in your working directory.
:::
