apps/docs/content/shared-storage/how-to/create.mdx, before:

# Create Shared storage service in Zerops

Zerops provides a Shared storage service to share files between all containers of the same service or even among containers of different runtime services. Shared storage is a secure file system storage built on [SeaweedFS ↗](https://github.com/seaweedfs/seaweedfs) that suits both for development and production.

## Create Shared storage service using Zerops GUI

First, set up a project in Zerops GUI and add a runtime service. Then go to the project dashboard page and choose **Add new service** in the left menu in the **Services** block. Then add a new Shared storage service:

<p>
  <video
    width="100%"
    autoplay="true"
    loop="loop"
    muted="muted"
    plays-inline="true"
  >
    <source
      src="/img/screenshots/create_shared_storage_cast.mp4"
      type="video/mp4"
    />
  </video>
</p>

### Set a hostname

Enter a unique service identifier like "storage","shared" etc. Duplicate services with the same name in the same project are forbidden.

#### Limitations:

- maximum 25 characters
- must contain only lowercase ASCII letters (a-z) or numbers (0-9)

:::note
The hostname is fixed after the service is created. It can't be changed later.
:::

### Connect to a service

Select one or more project's runtime services in the Share with Services block:

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/connect_shared_storage.png"
    alt="image"
    width="100%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

The new Shared storage will be connected to the selected runtimes.

### Choose Shared storage service mode

Zerops provides Shared service in two modes: Highly available and Single container.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/shared_storage_mode.png"
    alt="image"
    width="50%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

#### Highly available

Zerops will create a Shared storage cluster with 3 containers. This mode is suited for production.

Zerops always keep the 3 Shared storage containers on different physical machines. All your data is stored redundantly in 3 identical copies. In case of a failure of a container or the underlying physical machine, Zerops automatically disconnects the failed container from the cluster, creates a new container and syncs all data from the remaining 2 copies. Finally the broken container is automatically deleted.

#### Single container

Zerops will create a Shared storage in a single container. Useful for non-essential data or dev environments.

Your data is stored only in a single container. If the container or the underlying physical machine fails, your data since the last backup are lost. Zerops doesn't provide any automatic repairs of single node Shared storage services.

:::note
The Shared storage service mode is fixed after the service is created. It can't be changed later.
:::

### Set auto scaling configuration

Zerops scales Shared storage services automatically by raising or lowering the hardware resources of each database container.

Vertical auto scaling has following default configuration:

| HW resource   | Minimum | Maximum |
| ------------- | ------- | ------- |
| **CPU cores** | 1       | 5       |
| **RAM**       | 0.25 GB | 32 GB   |
| **Disk**      | 1 GB    | 100 GB  |

For most cases, the default parameters will work without issues. If you need to limit the cost of the Shared storage service, lower the maximal resources. Zerops will never scale above the selected maximums.

When you are experiencing problems with insufficient Shared storage performance or capacity, increase the minimal resources. Zerops will never scale below the selected minimums.

You can change the auto scaling parameters later.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/shared_storage_autoscaling.png"
    alt="image"
    width="100%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

[Learn more] about Shared storage auto scaling.

## Create Shared storage service using zCLI

zCLI is the Zerops command-line tool. To create a new Shared storage service via the command-line, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. Create a project description file
3. Create a project with a runtime and a Shared storage service

### Choose your runtime

Read about how to create a project description file and create a runtime service with a Shared storage service using zCLI. Choose the runtime you use:

- [Node.js with Shared storage](/nodejs/how-to/shared-storage/#create-nodejs-service-with-a-shared-storage-using-zcli)
- [PHP with Shared storage](/php/how-to/shared-storage/#create-php-service-with-a-shared-storage-using-zcli)
- [Python with Shared storage](/python/how-to/shared-storage/#create-python-service-with-a-shared-storage-using-zcli)
- [Go with Shared storage](/go/how-to/shared-storage/#create-go-service-with-a-shared-storage-using-zcli)
- [.NET with Shared storage](/dotnet/how-to/shared-storage/#create-dotnet-service-with-a-shared-storage-using-zcli)
- [Rust with Shared storage](/rust/how-to/shared-storage/#create-rust-service-with-a-shared-storage-using-zcli)

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/shared-storage/how-to/create.mdx, after:

---
tite: Create Shared storage service in Zerops
description: Learn how to create shared storage which you can use with your other services on Zerops.
---
Zerops provides a Shared storage service to share files between all containers of the same service or even among containers of different runtime services. Shared storage is a secure file system storage built on [SeaweedFS ↗](https://github.com/seaweedfs/seaweedfs) that suits both for development and production.

## Create Shared storage service using Zerops GUI

First, set up a project in Zerops GUI and add a runtime service. Then go to the project dashboard page and choose **Add new service** in the left menu in the **Services** block. Then add a new Shared storage service:

<p>
  <video
    width="100%"
    autoplay="true"
    loop="loop"
    muted="muted"
    plays-inline="true"
  >
    <source
      src="/img/screenshots/create_shared_storage_cast.mp4"
      type="video/mp4"
    />
  </video>
</p>

### Set a hostname

Enter a unique service identifier like "storage","shared" etc. Duplicate services with the same name in the same project are forbidden.

#### Limitations:

- maximum 25 characters
- must contain only lowercase ASCII letters (a-z) or numbers (0-9)

:::note
The hostname is fixed after the service is created. It can't be changed later.
:::

### Connect to a service

Select one or more project's runtime services in the Share with Services block:

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/connect_shared_storage.png"
    alt="image"
    width="100%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

The new Shared storage will be connected to the selected runtimes.

### Choose Shared storage service mode

Zerops provides Shared service in two modes: Highly available and Single container.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/shared_storage_mode.png"
    alt="image"
    width="50%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

#### Highly available

Zerops will create a Shared storage cluster with 3 containers. This mode is suited for production.

Zerops always keep the 3 Shared storage containers on different physical machines. All your data is stored redundantly in 3 identical copies. In case of a failure of a container or the underlying physical machine, Zerops automatically disconnects the failed container from the cluster, creates a new container and syncs all data from the remaining 2 copies. Finally the broken container is automatically deleted.

#### Single container

Zerops will create a Shared storage in a single container. Useful for non-essential data or dev environments.

Your data is stored only in a single container. If the container or the underlying physical machine fails, your data since the last backup are lost. Zerops doesn't provide any automatic repairs of single node Shared storage services.

:::note
The Shared storage service mode is fixed after the service is created. It can't be changed later.
:::

### Set auto scaling configuration

Zerops scales Shared storage services automatically by raising or lowering the hardware resources of each database container.

Vertical auto scaling has following default configuration:

| HW resource   | Minimum | Maximum |
| ------------- | ------- | ------- |
| **CPU cores** | 1       | 5       |
| **RAM**       | 0.25 GB | 32 GB   |
| **Disk**      | 1 GB    | 100 GB  |

For most cases, the default parameters will work without issues. If you need to limit the cost of the Shared storage service, lower the maximal resources. Zerops will never scale above the selected maximums.

When you are experiencing problems with insufficient Shared storage performance or capacity, increase the minimal resources. Zerops will never scale below the selected minimums.

You can change the auto scaling parameters later.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/shared_storage_autoscaling.png"
    alt="image"
    width="100%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

[Learn more] about Shared storage auto scaling.

## Create Shared storage service using zCLI

zCLI is the Zerops command-line tool. To create a new Shared storage service via the command-line, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. Create a project description file
3. Create a project with a runtime and a Shared storage service

### Choose your runtime

Read about how to create a project description file and create a runtime service with a Shared storage service using zCLI. Choose the runtime you use:

- [Node.js with Shared storage](/nodejs/how-to/shared-storage/#create-nodejs-service-with-a-shared-storage-using-zcli)
- [PHP with Shared storage](/php/how-to/shared-storage/#create-php-service-with-a-shared-storage-using-zcli)
- [Python with Shared storage](/python/how-to/shared-storage/#create-python-service-with-a-shared-storage-using-zcli)
- [Go with Shared storage](/go/how-to/shared-storage/#create-go-service-with-a-shared-storage-using-zcli)
- [.NET with Shared storage](/dotnet/how-to/shared-storage/#create-dotnet-service-with-a-shared-storage-using-zcli)
- [Rust with Shared storage](/rust/how-to/shared-storage/#create-rust-service-with-a-shared-storage-using-zcli)
