apps/docs/content/features/env-variables.mdx, before:

---
title: Environment variables
description: Learn how to use and manage environment variables in Zerops
---

import Image from '/src/components/Image';

Environment variables are specific to each environment and can only be accessed within the environment they belong to.

You can create multiple [projects](/features/infrastructure#project) in Zerops, each representing different environments (development, staging, production). Alternatively, each developer can have a project with their own environment.

You do not have to create an `.env` file. Zerops handles the environment variables for you.

## Types of environment variables

### Build & Runtime Variables

These are variables defined in your `zerops.yml` file and are accessible within the build or runtime containers.

### Secret Variables

**Secret variables** are used to store all the sensitive data you don't want to store in your source repository, they are also useful for testing, where you need to frequently change the environment values.

You don't need to redeploy your application when you update them and can only be managed via [**Zerops GUI**](https://app.zerops.io/).

:::tip
You can reference another variable of the same service or even a variable of another service within the same project.
:::

## Setting environment variables

To set environment variables for the **build** or **runtime** environment, add the `envVariables` attribute to the `build` or `run` section in your `zerops.yml`.

```yml title="zerops.yml"
build:
  envVariables:
    DB_NAME: db
    DB_HOST: 127.0.0.1
    DB_USER: db
    DB_PASS: password

run:
  envVariables:
    DB_NAME: db
    DB_HOST: 127.0.0.1
    DB_USER: db
    DB_PASS: password
```

:::note
It is always necessary to redeploy your application when updating or creating environmental variables inside `zerops.yml`.
:::

## Setting secret variables

There are several ways to set secret variables in Zerops:

### During service import

When importing services using YAML configuration files, you can define secret variables using the `envSecrets` map:

```yaml
services:
  - hostname: app
    type: nodejs@latest
    envSecrets:
      S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID: 'P8cX1vVVb'
      S3_ACCESS_SECRET: 'ogFthuiLYki8XoL73opSCQ'
```

### In Zerops GUI

Use secret variables to store passwords, tokens and other sensitive information that shouldn't be part of your repository and listed in zerops.yml.

<p align="center">
    <Image
    lightImage="/img/screenshots/runtime_secret_variables.png"
    darkImage="/img/screenshots/runtime_secret_variables.png"
    alt="Runtime Secret Variables"
  />
</p>

To configure environment variables for an existing service, go to the service detail and find **Environment variables** in the left menu. Click on the **Add secret variable** button and set values for `Key` and `Value`.

To edit an environment variable, click on the menu <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginBottom: -5 + 'px' }} height="24px" viewBox="0 -960 960 960" width="24px" fill="#e8eaed"><path d="M480-160q-33 0-56.5-23.5T400-240q0-33 23.5-56.5T480-320q33 0 56.5 23.5T560-240q0 33-23.5 56.5T480-160Zm0-240q-33 0-56.5-23.5T400-480q0-33 23.5-56.5T480-560q33 0 56.5 23.5T560-480q0 33-23.5 56.5T480-400Zm0-240q-33 0-56.5-23.5T400-720q0-33 23.5-56.5T480-800q33 0 56.5 23.5T560-720q0 33-23.5 56.5T480-640Z"/></svg> on the right side of its row.

After making changes, click the **Commit x changes** button to apply your updates. Zerops will automatically propagate these changes to the environment variables across all containers in your project's services.

:::note
It is necessary to restart the service whenever you commit changes in environment variables.
:::

## Restrictions

### Key

- It should be alphanumeric characters without spaces, you can use `_` to separate words
- Keys in the same service must be unique
- Keys are case-sensitive

### Value

- Must contain only ASCII characters
- Any EOL character is forbidden

These restrictions apply to all [types of environment variables](#types-of-environment-variables).

## Referencing other environment variables

You can reference variables either from the same service or from different services within the same project. Below are examples of how to do this.

### Referencing a local variable in another variable

In this example, we're referencing a variable defined in the runtime container from the build container. This can be helpful if you need to use the same environment variables across different stages.

```yml
envVariables:
  id: 42069
  hostname: app
  name: ${id}-${hostname} # 42069-app
```

### Referencing a variable of another project service

Let's say your project contains two PostgreSQL services `dbtest` and `dbprod`. Both services have a `connectionString` variable.

Then you can create a `dbConnectionString` env variable in your application runtime and set `${dbtest_connectionString}` as the variable value. Zerops will fill in the value of the `connectionString` variable of the `dbtest` service.

```yml
setup: dbtest
  run:
    envVariables:
      connectionString: 127.0.0.1

setup: dbprod
  run:
    envVariables:
      connectionString: 10.0.0.1

setup: app
  run:
    envVariables:
      connectionString: ${dbtest_connectionString}
      # Or if you want to use dbprod
      connectionString: ${dbprod_connectionString}
```

### Referencing a variable from runtime to build service

```yml
build:
  envVariables:
    variable: RUNTIME_someVariable
run:
  envVariables:
    someVariable: hello world
```

## Generated environment variables

Zerops automatically generates several variables when a runtime service is created, such as `hostname` and `PATH`. Some of these variables (like `hostname`) are read-only, while others (like `PATH`) can be edited. These variables cannot be deleted and are always listed at the bottom of the **Environment Variables** page.

## Runtime specific tutorials

- [Node.js](/nodejs/how-to/env-variables#how-to-read-env-variables-from-your-nodejs-app)
- [PHP](/php/how-to/env-variables#how-to-read-env-variables-from-your-php-app)
- [Python](/python/how-to/env-variables#how-to-read-env-variables-from-your-python-app)
- [Go](/go/how-to/env-variables#how-to-read-env-variables-from-your-go-app)
- [.NET](/dotnet/how-to/env-variables#how-to-read-env-variables-from-your-dotnet-app)
- [Rust](/rust/how-to/env-variables#how-to-read-env-variables-from-your-rust-app)

## Environment variables with the same key

If you have a secret environment variable and a build or runtime variable with the same key, Zerops prioritizes your build or runtime variables.

Having the same key in both build and runtime variables has no effect because they exist in completely separate containers.

Commit message:

feat: bunch editing environment variables

apps/docs/content/features/env-variables.mdx, after:

---
title: Environment variables
description: Learn how to use and manage environment variables in Zerops
---

import Image from '/src/components/Image';

Environment variables are specific to each environment and can only be accessed within the environment they belong to.

You can create multiple [projects](/features/infrastructure#project) in Zerops, each representing different environments (development, staging, production). Alternatively, each developer can have a project with their own environment.

You do not have to create an `.env` file. Zerops handles the environment variables for you.

## Types of environment variables

### Build & Runtime Variables

These are variables defined in your `zerops.yml` file and are accessible within the build or runtime containers.

### Secret Variables

**Secret variables** are used to store all the sensitive data you don't want to store in your source repository, they are also useful for testing, where you need to frequently change the environment values.

You don't need to redeploy your application when you update them and can only be managed via [**Zerops GUI**](https://app.zerops.io/).

:::tip
You can reference another variable of the same service or even a variable of another service within the same project.
:::

## Setting environment variables

To set environment variables for the **build** or **runtime** environment, add the `envVariables` attribute to the `build` or `run` section in your `zerops.yml`.

```yml title="zerops.yml"
build:
  envVariables:
    DB_NAME: db
    DB_HOST: 127.0.0.1
    DB_USER: db
    DB_PASS: password

run:
  envVariables:
    DB_NAME: db
    DB_HOST: 127.0.0.1
    DB_USER: db
    DB_PASS: password
```

:::note
It is always necessary to redeploy your application when updating or creating environmental variables inside `zerops.yml`.
:::

## Setting secret variables

There are several ways to set secret variables in Zerops:

### During service import

When importing services using YAML configuration files, you can define secret variables using the `envSecrets` map:

```yaml
services:
  - hostname: app
    type: nodejs@latest
    envSecrets:
      S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID: 'P8cX1vVVb'
      S3_ACCESS_SECRET: 'ogFthuiLYki8XoL73opSCQ'
```

### In Zerops GUI

Use secret variables to store passwords, tokens and other sensitive information that shouldn't be part of your repository and listed in zerops.yml.

You can manage secret variables in two ways:

1. **Individual editing**: Add or edit variables one by one using the "Add secret variable" button
2. **Bulk editing**: Click "Edit multiple secret variables in .env format" to manage multiple variables at once using .env file format

<p align="center">
    <Image
    lightImage="/img/screenshots/runtime_secret_variables.png"
    darkImage="/img/screenshots/runtime_secret_variables.png"
    alt="Runtime Secret Variables"
  />
</p>

#### Individual editing
To configure individual variables, click the "Add secret variable" button and set values for `Key` and `Value`. To edit an existing variable, click on the menu <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginBottom: -5 + 'px' }} height="24px" viewBox="0 -960 960 960" width="24px" fill="#e8eaed"><path d="M480-160q-33 0-56.5-23.5T400-240q0-33 23.5-56.5T480-320q33 0 56.5 23.5T560-240q0 33-23.5 56.5T480-160Zm0-240q-33 0-56.5-23.5T400-480q0-33 23.5-56.5T480-560q33 0 56.5 23.5T560-480q0 33-23.5 56.5T480-400Zm0-240q-33 0-56.5-23.5T400-720q0-33 23.5-56.5T480-800q33 0 56.5 23.5T560-720q0 33-23.5 56.5T480-640Z"/></svg> on the right side of its row.

#### Bulk editing
Click "Edit multiple secret variables in .env format" to open an editor where you can:
- Add new variables
- Update existing variables 
- Delete variables by removing their lines

After making changes, click the **Commit x changes** button to apply your updates. Zerops will automatically propagate these changes to the environment variables across all containers in your project's services.

:::note
It is necessary to restart the service whenever you commit changes in environment variables.
:::

## Restrictions

### Key

- It should be alphanumeric characters without spaces, you can use `_` to separate words
- Keys in the same service must be unique
- Keys are case-sensitive

### Value

- Must contain only ASCII characters
- Any EOL character is forbidden

These restrictions apply to all [types of environment variables](#types-of-environment-variables).

## Referencing other environment variables

You can reference variables either from the same service or from different services within the same project. Below are examples of how to do this.

### Referencing a local variable in another variable

In this example, we're referencing a variable defined in the runtime container from the build container. This can be helpful if you need to use the same environment variables across different stages.

```yml
envVariables:
  id: 42069
  hostname: app
  name: ${id}-${hostname} # 42069-app
```

### Referencing a variable of another project service

Let's say your project contains two PostgreSQL services `dbtest` and `dbprod`. Both services have a `connectionString` variable.

Then you can create a `dbConnectionString` env variable in your application runtime and set `${dbtest_connectionString}` as the variable value. Zerops will fill in the value of the `connectionString` variable of the `dbtest` service.

```yml
setup: dbtest
  run:
    envVariables:
      connectionString: 127.0.0.1

setup: dbprod
  run:
    envVariables:
      connectionString: 10.0.0.1

setup: app
  run:
    envVariables:
      connectionString: ${dbtest_connectionString}
      # Or if you want to use dbprod
      connectionString: ${dbprod_connectionString}
```

### Referencing a variable from runtime to build service

```yml
build:
  envVariables:
    variable: RUNTIME_someVariable
run:
  envVariables:
    someVariable: hello world
```

## Generated environment variables

Zerops automatically generates several variables when a runtime service is created, such as `hostname` and `PATH`. Some of these variables (like `hostname`) are read-only, while others (like `PATH`) can be edited. These variables cannot be deleted and are always listed at the bottom of the **Environment Variables** page.

## Runtime specific tutorials

- [Node.js](/nodejs/how-to/env-variables#how-to-read-env-variables-from-your-nodejs-app)
- [PHP](/php/how-to/env-variables#how-to-read-env-variables-from-your-php-app)
- [Python](/python/how-to/env-variables#how-to-read-env-variables-from-your-python-app)
- [Go](/go/how-to/env-variables#how-to-read-env-variables-from-your-go-app)
- [.NET](/dotnet/how-to/env-variables#how-to-read-env-variables-from-your-dotnet-app)
- [Rust](/rust/how-to/env-variables#how-to-read-env-variables-from-your-rust-app)

## Environment variables with the same key

If you have a secret environment variable and a build or runtime variable with the same key, Zerops prioritizes your build or runtime variables.

Having the same key in both build and runtime variables has no effect because they exist in completely separate containers.
