apps/docs/content/features/infrastructure.mdx, before:

---
title: Project & Services Structure
description: Explore Project & Services Structure on Zerops.
---
Zerops structure has three levels - **projects**, **services** and **containers**.

## Project

The **project** is the top-level entity, encompassing various **services**. It requires a functioning **core**, which includes:

- Logger and statistics services
- HTTP routing (with SSL certificates)
- IP routing (with built-in firewall)

The core activates when the first user service is deployed and incurs a fixed monthly fee.

### Key Features

- **Private Network**: All services in a project share a dedicated network and have access to each other's environment variables.
- **IPv6/IPv4**: Each project automatically gets an IPv6 address. An IPv4 address can be added at an extra cost.

:::tip
Create separate projects for different environments (e.g., development, staging, production) or use one project shared among developers to save costs.
:::

## Services & Containers

### Services

Services are responsible for encapsulating your containers.
A project can host unlimited **services**, which can be:

- **Fully managed**: Includes automatic scaling, routing, and repairs.
- **Partially managed**: Some management aspects are handled manually.

### Containers

Each service consists of one or more **containers**. Containers may vary by function or type, such as in **HA (High Availability) mode**, where a fully managed MariaDB service might have 5 containers (3 for databases, 2 for proxies).

- **Predefined Images**: Containers use Zerops' predefined images, ranging from **fully managed** (e.g., databases) to **customizable** (e.g., Ubuntu).
- **Public Accessibility**: Services can be exposed via Zerops subdomains, custom domains, or public ports on IPv6/IPv4 addresses.

**Refer to the technology section for detailed setup instructions.**

Commit message:

UX Improvement + Screen Recordings (#160)
* chore: fix indentation

* fix broken link

* invert colors option in images

* 2 new images to pipeline.mdx

* latest images in pipeline.mdx

* update images

* Update step-1.webp

* add automatic scaling img

* add video

* two more videos

* Update styles.module.css

* videos to scaling-ha.mdx

* iterate

* add video in access.mdx

* improve images in access.mdx

* fix links and add badges

* BadgeTitle -> Badge

* add bun.webm + setup video zoom

* add video to deno

* add golang.webm and fix video

* iterate

* update webm

* add rust.webm

* add python.webm

* add dotnet.webm

* add java.webm

* add nodejs.webm + elixir.webm

* add gleam.webm

* add mariadb.webm

* add static.webm + shared-storage.webm

* add nginx-static.webm

* add object-storage.webm & postgres.webm

* fix calculator

* iterate calculator

* Update index.tsx

* fix styles and alignments

* fix links to zCLI documentation

* add brand assets

* comment unused faq pages

* improve infrastructure.mdx + add project core

* Update bun.webm

* revert inverColors

* Update pipeline.mdx

* Update introduction.mdx

* Update index.tsx

* add dark versions for dark mode for badges

* Update create.mdx

* Update zerops-assets.zip

* fix disk increment

* fix calculator (disk)

* iterate scaling-ha.mdx

apps/docs/content/features/infrastructure.mdx, after:

---
title: Project & Services Structure
description: Explore Project & Services Structure on Zerops.
---
import Image from '/src/components/Image';

Zerops structure has three levels - **projects**, **services** and **containers**.

## Project

The **project** is the top-level entity, encompassing various **services**. It requires a functioning **core**, which includes:

- Logger and statistics services
- HTTP routing (with SSL certificates)
- IP routing (with built-in firewall)

The core activates when the first user service is deployed and incurs a fixed monthly fee.

### Lightweight Core

<Image
  lightImage="/img/mind-maps/lightweight.svg"
  darkImage="/img/mind-maps/lightweight.svg"
  style={{ width: '95%', height: 'auto' }}
  alt="Lightweight Core"
/>

Single-container infrastructure with L3 balancer, firewall, logger, and statistics service. Includes HTTP routing with SSL termination, automatic certificate generation, and load balancers. Comes with 15 hours of build time, 5 GB backup space, and 100 GB egress traffic. Ideal for development and smaller production workloads.

### Serious Core

<Image
  lightImage="/img/mind-maps/serious.svg"
  darkImage="/img/mind-maps/serious.svg"
  style={{ width: '95%', height: 'auto' }}
  alt="Serious Core"
/>

Highly available infrastructure with redundant core services, advanced load balancing, and SSL management. Features 150 hours of build time, 25 GB backup space, and 3 TB egress traffic. Built for production workloads requiring high reliability and scalability.

For detailed information about both core types and their resource limits, visit our [pricing page](/features/pricing#project-plans).

### Key Features

- **Private Network**: All services in a project share a dedicated network and have access to each other's environment variables.
- **IPv6/IPv4**: Each project automatically gets an IPv6 address. An IPv4 address can be added at an extra cost.

:::tip
Create separate projects for different environments (e.g., development, staging, production) or use one project shared among developers to save costs.
:::

## Services & Containers

### Services

Services are responsible for encapsulating your containers.
A project can host unlimited **services**, which can be:

- **Fully managed**: Includes automatic scaling, routing, and repairs.
- **Partially managed**: Some management aspects are handled manually.

### Containers

Each service consists of one or more **containers**. Containers may vary by function or type, such as in **HA (High Availability) mode**, where a fully managed MariaDB service might have 5 containers (3 for databases, 2 for proxies).

- **Predefined Images**: Containers use Zerops' predefined images, ranging from **fully managed** (e.g., databases) to **customizable** (e.g., Ubuntu).
- **Public Accessibility**: Services can be exposed via Zerops subdomains, custom domains, or public ports on IPv6/IPv4 addresses.

**Refer to the technology section for detailed setup instructions.**
