apps/docs/content/rust/how-to/build-process.mdx, before:

---
title: Rust build process
description: Learn more about rust's build process.
---

import data from '@site/static/data.json';

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/build_deploy_pipeline-step2.png"
    alt="image"
    width="100%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

## Description of the build process

Zerops starts a temporary build container and performs following actions:

1. Installs the build environment
2. Downloads your application source code from [GitHub ↗](https://www.github.com), [GitLab ↗](https://www.gitlab.com) or via [Zerops CLI](/references/cli)
3. Optionally [customises the build environment](/rust/how-to/build-process#customise-rust-build-environment)
4. Runs the build commands
5. Uploads the application artefact to the internal Zerops storage
6. Optionally [customizes the runtime environment](/rust/how-to/customize-runtime)
7. [Deploys your application](/rust/how-to/deploy-process)

The build container is automatically deleted after the build has finished or failed.

## Cancel running build

When you know that the running build is not correct and you want to cancel it, you can do it in Zerops GUI. Go to the service detail, select **Service dashboard & runtime containers** from the left menu and click on the **Open pipeline detail** button. Then click on the **Cancel build** button.

**// TODO screenshot of a running build pipeline**

The build cancellation is available before the build pipeline is finished. When the build is finished, the deployment cannot be cancelled.

## Customise Rust build environment

The default Rust build environment contains:

- <span>{data.alpineCurrentVersion}</span>
- selected version of Rust defined in `zerops.yml` [build.base](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#base) parameter
- [zCLI](/references/cli), Zerops command line tool
- `npm`, `yarn`, `git` and `npx` tools

If you prefer the Ubuntu OS instead of Alpine, set the `<a href="/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#os">build.os</a>` attribute to `ubuntu`. To install additional packages or tools add one or more [build.prepareCommands](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands) commands to your `zerops.yml`.

:::info
The application code is available in the `/var/www` folder in your build container before the prepare commands are triggered. This allows you to use any file from your application code in your prepare commands (e.g. a configuration file).
:::

## Rust build hardware resources

Build of your Rust application is run in a separate build container with following resource configuration:

| HW resource   | Minimum | Maximum |
| ------------- | ------- | ------- |
| **CPU cores** | 6       | 20      |
| **RAM**       | 8 GB    | 8 GB    |
| **Disk**      | 1 GB    | 100 GB  |

The build container is always started with the minimum hardware resources and scales vertically up to the maximum resources.

:::info
Hardware resources of the build containers are not charged. The build costs are covered by the standard Zerops [project fee](https://zerops.io/#pricing).
:::

## Build time limit

The time limit for the whole build pipeline is **1 hour**. After 1 hour, Zerops will terminate the build pipeline and delete the build container.

## Troubleshooting build-related problems

### Failure of a build prepare command

If any [prepare command](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands) fails, it returns an exit code other than 0 and the build is canceled. Read the [build log](/rust/how-to/logs#build-log) to troubleshoot the error. If the command ends successfully, it returns the exit code 0 and Zerops triggers the following command. When all `prepareCommands` commands are finished, your custom build environment is ready for the build phase.

### Invalidate the build cache

Some packages or tools can take a long time to install. Therefore, Zerops caches your custom build environment after each successful build where the `prepareCommands` commands were used. When the second or following build is triggered, Zerops will use the build cache from the previous build if both following conditions are met:

1. Content of the [build.base](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#base) and [build.prepareCommands](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands) attributes didn't change from the previous build
2. The build cache wasn't invalidated in the Zerops GUI.

To invalidate the Zerops build cache go to your service detail in Zerops GUI, choose **Service dashboard & runtime containers** from the left menu and click on the **Open pipeline detail** button. Then click on the **Invalidate build cache** icon.

{/* TODO screenshot** */}

When the build cache is used, Zerops doesn't run the prepare commands and the build of your application is faster.

### Failure of a build command

If any [build command](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#build) fails, it returns an exit code other than 0 and the build is canceled. Read the [build log](/rust/how-to/logs#build-log) to troubleshoot the error. If the error log doesn't contain any specific error message, try to run your build with the `--verbose` option.

```yml
buildCommands:
  - cargo build --release -v
```

If the command ends successfully, it returns the exit code 0 and Zerops triggers the following command. When all `buildCommands` are finished, the application build is completed and ready for the [deploy](/rust/how-to/deploy-process) phase.

Commit message:

re: add customize build environment to build-process

apps/docs/content/rust/how-to/build-process.mdx, after:

---
title: Rust build process
description: Learn more about rust's build process.
---

import data from '@site/static/data.json';

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/build_deploy_pipeline-step2.png"
    alt="image"
    width="100%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

## Description of the build process

Zerops starts a temporary build container and performs following actions:

1. Installs the build environment
2. Downloads your application source code from [GitHub ↗](https://www.github.com), [GitLab ↗](https://www.gitlab.com) or via [Zerops CLI](/references/cli)
3. Optionally [customises the build environment](/rust/how-to/build-process#customise-rust-build-environment)
4. Runs the build commands
5. Uploads the application artefact to the internal Zerops storage
6. Optionally [customizes the runtime environment](/rust/how-to/customize-runtime)
7. [Deploys your application](/rust/how-to/deploy-process)

The build container is automatically deleted after the build has finished or failed.

## Cancel running build

When you know that the running build is not correct and you want to cancel it, you can do it in Zerops GUI. Go to the service detail, select **Service dashboard & runtime containers** from the left menu and click on the **Open pipeline detail** button. Then click on the **Cancel build** button.

**// TODO screenshot of a running build pipeline**

The build cancellation is available before the build pipeline is finished. When the build is finished, the deployment cannot be cancelled.

The build cancellation is available before the build pipeline is finished. When the build is finished, the deployment cannot be cancelled.

## Customise .NET build environment

The default .NET build environment contains:

- <span>{data.alpineCurrentVersion}</span>
- .NET Version
- [zCLI](/references/cli)
- ASP .NET and Git

:::note
To use Ubuntu instead of the default Alpine, set the [run.os](/references/zeropsyml#os-optional-1) attribute.

Additional packages and tools can be installed using [run.prepareCommands](/references/zeropsyml#preparecommands-optional-1).
:::

## Customise Rust build environment

The default Rust build environment contains:

- <span>{data.alpineCurrentVersion}</span>
- selected version of Rust defined in `zerops.yml` [build.base](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#base) parameter
- [zCLI](/references/cli), Zerops command line tool
- `npm`, `yarn`, `git` and `npx` tools

If you prefer the Ubuntu OS instead of Alpine, set the `<a href="/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#os">build.os</a>` attribute to `ubuntu`. To install additional packages or tools add one or more [build.prepareCommands](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands) commands to your `zerops.yml`.

:::info
The application code is available in the `/var/www` folder in your build container before the prepare commands are triggered. This allows you to use any file from your application code in your prepare commands (e.g. a configuration file).
:::

## Rust build hardware resources

Build of your Rust application is run in a separate build container with following resource configuration:

| HW resource   | Minimum | Maximum |
| ------------- | ------- | ------- |
| **CPU cores** | 6       | 20      |
| **RAM**       | 8 GB    | 8 GB    |
| **Disk**      | 1 GB    | 100 GB  |

The build container is always started with the minimum hardware resources and scales vertically up to the maximum resources.

:::info
Hardware resources of the build containers are not charged. The build costs are covered by the standard Zerops [project fee](https://zerops.io/#pricing).
:::

## Build time limit

The time limit for the whole build pipeline is **1 hour**. After 1 hour, Zerops will terminate the build pipeline and delete the build container.

## Troubleshooting build-related problems

### Failure of a build prepare command

If any [prepare command](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands) fails, it returns an exit code other than 0 and the build is canceled. Read the [build log](/rust/how-to/logs#build-log) to troubleshoot the error. If the command ends successfully, it returns the exit code 0 and Zerops triggers the following command. When all `prepareCommands` commands are finished, your custom build environment is ready for the build phase.

### Invalidate the build cache

Some packages or tools can take a long time to install. Therefore, Zerops caches your custom build environment after each successful build where the `prepareCommands` commands were used. When the second or following build is triggered, Zerops will use the build cache from the previous build if both following conditions are met:

1. Content of the [build.base](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#base) and [build.prepareCommands](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands) attributes didn't change from the previous build
2. The build cache wasn't invalidated in the Zerops GUI.

To invalidate the Zerops build cache go to your service detail in Zerops GUI, choose **Service dashboard & runtime containers** from the left menu and click on the **Open pipeline detail** button. Then click on the **Invalidate build cache** icon.

{/* TODO screenshot** */}

When the build cache is used, Zerops doesn't run the prepare commands and the build of your application is faster.

### Failure of a build command

If any [build command](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#build) fails, it returns an exit code other than 0 and the build is canceled. Read the [build log](/rust/how-to/logs#build-log) to troubleshoot the error. If the error log doesn't contain any specific error message, try to run your build with the `--verbose` option.

```yml
buildCommands:
  - cargo build --release -v
```

If the command ends successfully, it returns the exit code 0 and Zerops triggers the following command. When all `buildCommands` are finished, the application build is completed and ready for the [deploy](/rust/how-to/deploy-process) phase.
