apps/docs/content/rust/how-to/logs.mdx, before:

---
title: Setup & access Rust logs
---

Zerops provides 3 different logs:

- [build log](#build-log)
- [prepare runtime log](#prepare-runtime-log)
- [runtime log](#runtime-log)

## How to access logs

### Build log

#### Zerops GUI

To access a build log in Zerops GUI, go to the service detail and choose **Service dashboard & runtime containers** in the left menu. Then open the pipeline detail of an application version and click on **Build log**. The build log button is available only if the [build pipeline](/rust/how-to/trigger-pipeline) was triggered for the selected deploy.

#### zCLI

To access a build log in Zerops CLI use

```sh
zcli service log --showBuildLogs
```

Read more about the [zcli service log](/references/cli/access-logs) command.

### Prepare runtime log

#### Zerops GUI

To access a prepare runtime log in Zerops GUI, go to the service detail and choose **Service dashboard & runtime containers** in the left menu. Then open the pipeline detail of an application version and click on **Prepare runtime log**. The prepare runtime log button is available only if the [prepare runtime pipeline](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands-1) was triggered for the selected deploy.

#### zCLI

_Prepare runtime log is currently not supported in zCLI._

### Runtime log

#### Zerops GUI

To access a runtime log in Zerops GUI, go to the service detail and choose **Runtime log** in the left menu.

**// TODO screenshot**

Each runtime container has its own log. If your service has multiple containers, select the container in the log header.

You can filter log records by minimum severity or by time.

#### zCLI

To access the log of the _first runtime container_ in Zerops CLI use

```sh
zcli service log
```

For an _aggregate log_ from all service's runtime containers omit the `@1`

```sh
zcli service log
```

Read more about the [zcli service log](/references/cli/access-logs) command.

## Rust logging configuration

Zerops logs all messages sent

- to the standard error (`stderr`)
- to the standard output (`stdout`)
- via the Rust `console.log` method

### Severity level

By default the `console.log` creates a message with the `Informational (6)` severity.

Add a severity number in the `<N>` format as a prefix to set a custom severity as shown below:

```rust
console.log("A message with the informational severity ...");
console.log('<0>Emergency (0) severity > system is unusable.');
console.log('<1>Alert (1) severity > action must be taken immediately.');
console.log('<2>Critical (2) severity > critical conditions.');
console.log('<3>Error (3) severity > error conditions.');
console.log('<4>Warning (4) severity > warning conditions.');
console.log('<5>Notice (5) severity > normal, but significant, condition.');
console.log('<6>Informational (6) severity > informational message.');
console.log('<7>Debug (7) severity > debug-level message.');
```

:::info

`console.info`, `console.warn`, `console.debug`
, and `console.error` are just aliases to the `
  console.log
` method. They don't set the appropriate severity number. Use the `
  &lt;N&gt;
` prefix instead. :::

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/rust/how-to/logs.mdx, after:

---
title: Setup & access Rust logs
description: Learn how you can setup & access rust logs on Zerops.
---

Zerops provides 3 different logs:

- [build log](#build-log)
- [prepare runtime log](#prepare-runtime-log)
- [runtime log](#runtime-log)

## How to access logs

### Build log

#### Zerops GUI

To access a build log in Zerops GUI, go to the service detail and choose **Service dashboard & runtime containers** in the left menu. Then open the pipeline detail of an application version and click on **Build log**. The build log button is available only if the [build pipeline](/rust/how-to/trigger-pipeline) was triggered for the selected deploy.

#### zCLI

To access a build log in Zerops CLI use

```sh
zcli service log --showBuildLogs
```

Read more about the [zcli service log](/references/cli/access-logs) command.

### Prepare runtime log

#### Zerops GUI

To access a prepare runtime log in Zerops GUI, go to the service detail and choose **Service dashboard & runtime containers** in the left menu. Then open the pipeline detail of an application version and click on **Prepare runtime log**. The prepare runtime log button is available only if the [prepare runtime pipeline](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands-1) was triggered for the selected deploy.

#### zCLI

_Prepare runtime log is currently not supported in zCLI._

### Runtime log

#### Zerops GUI

To access a runtime log in Zerops GUI, go to the service detail and choose **Runtime log** in the left menu.

**// TODO screenshot**

Each runtime container has its own log. If your service has multiple containers, select the container in the log header.

You can filter log records by minimum severity or by time.

#### zCLI

To access the log of the _first runtime container_ in Zerops CLI use

```sh
zcli service log
```

For an _aggregate log_ from all service's runtime containers omit the `@1`

```sh
zcli service log
```

Read more about the [zcli service log](/references/cli/access-logs) command.

## Rust logging configuration

Zerops logs all messages sent

- to the standard error (`stderr`)
- to the standard output (`stdout`)
- via the Rust `console.log` method

### Severity level

By default the `console.log` creates a message with the `Informational (6)` severity.

Add a severity number in the `<N>` format as a prefix to set a custom severity as shown below:

```rust
console.log("A message with the informational severity ...");
console.log('<0>Emergency (0) severity > system is unusable.');
console.log('<1>Alert (1) severity > action must be taken immediately.');
console.log('<2>Critical (2) severity > critical conditions.');
console.log('<3>Error (3) severity > error conditions.');
console.log('<4>Warning (4) severity > warning conditions.');
console.log('<5>Notice (5) severity > normal, but significant, condition.');
console.log('<6>Informational (6) severity > informational message.');
console.log('<7>Debug (7) severity > debug-level message.');
```

:::info

`console.info`, `console.warn`, `console.debug`
, and `console.error` are just aliases to the `
  console.log
` method. They don't set the appropriate severity number. Use the `
  &lt;N&gt;
` prefix instead. :::
