apps/docs/content/java/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting started
description:
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

This quick start allows you to get hands-on experience of Zerops, whether you only want to see it in action or want to start small and scale up the project size later. The purpose of this guide is to get an existing Java application up and running easily.

If you are already familiar with Zerops and you are interested in more detailed guides for your own application, feel free to head straight to the [How to](/java/how-to/create) section.

## Guides

We have created a repository, a _recipe_, containing the most simple Java web application, so you don't need to write any code yet. Choose from the options below which suits you best:

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'tutorial/quickstart',
      label: 'No-Fuss one click guide (well, almost)',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['cursor-arrow-rays'],
        description:
          'Get the application running in no time. Best if you only want to see how Zerops works.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'tutorial/step-by-step',
      label: 'Simple tutorial in few easy steps',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['academic-cap-solid'],
        description: 'Learn the basics with one-service app.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

### Other recipes

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-java',
      label: 'Java + SQL database',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['github'],
        description: 'A more complex, multi-service application example.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio?q=java&type=all&language=&sort=',
      label: 'All Java recipes',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['github'],
        description: 'Browse our Github repositories to get inspired.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

:::tip
Did none of these Guides fit your needs? Join our **[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54)** community to get help from our team and other members.
:::

Commit message:

chore: seo description for getting started pages

apps/docs/content/java/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting started
description: Get started with java with ease on Zerops.
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

This quick start allows you to get hands-on experience of Zerops, whether you only want to see it in action or want to start small and scale up the project size later. The purpose of this guide is to get an existing Java application up and running easily.

If you are already familiar with Zerops and you are interested in more detailed guides for your own application, feel free to head straight to the [How to](/java/how-to/create) section.

## Guides

We have created a repository, a _recipe_, containing the most simple Java web application, so you don't need to write any code yet. Choose from the options below which suits you best:

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'tutorial/quickstart',
      label: 'No-Fuss one click guide (well, almost)',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['cursor-arrow-rays'],
        description:
          'Get the application running in no time. Best if you only want to see how Zerops works.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'tutorial/step-by-step',
      label: 'Simple tutorial in few easy steps',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['academic-cap-solid'],
        description: 'Learn the basics with one-service app.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

### Other recipes

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-java',
      label: 'Java + SQL database',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['github'],
        description: 'A more complex, multi-service application example.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio?q=java&type=all&language=&sort=',
      label: 'All Java recipes',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['github'],
        description: 'Browse our Github repositories to get inspired.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

:::tip
Did none of these Guides fit your needs? Join our **[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54)** community to get help from our team and other members.
:::
