apps/docs/content/java/overview.mdx, before:

---
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

# Java overview

[Java ↗](https://www.java.com/en/) is a high-level, class-based, object-oriented programming language that is designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible.

## How to start

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/getting-started',
      label: 'New to Zerops?',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['rocket-launch'],
        description: 'Learn the basics by following a simple example.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/create',
      label: 'Care for details?',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['academic-cap-solid'],
        description:
          'Dive in all Zerops has to offer for your Java application.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## Feature Highlights

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/create',
      label: 'Create Java service',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['java'],
        description: 'Start with creating a Java service using GUI or zCLI.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/build-pipeline#add-zeropsyml-to-your-repository',
      label: 'Zerops.yml',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['puzzle'],
        description:
          'See a full example of zerops.yml file to create your own app.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/scaling',
      label: 'Scaling configuration',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['adjustments'],
        description:
          'Set up scaling of your Java application so that it runs smoothly while using only necessary resources.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

{" "}

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/build-process#customise-java-build-environment',
      label: 'Customize build environment',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['sparkles'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/customize-runtime',
      label: 'Customize runtime environment',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['sparkles-solid'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## When in doubt, reach out

Don't know how to start or got stuck during the process? You might not be the first one, visit the FAQ section to find out.

In case you haven't found an answer (and also if you have), we and our community are looking forward to hearing from you on Discord.

Have you build something that others might find useful? Don't hesitate to share your knowledge!

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/faq',
      label: 'FAQ',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['chat-bubble-left-right'],
        description: 'Most common questions in one place.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54',
      label: 'Discord',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['discord'],
        description:
          'Join our core team and Zerops community on Discord. Ask questions and share your tips with other members.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## Popular Guides

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/cli',
      label: 'zCLI',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['command-line'],
        description:
          'Get even more out of Zerops with the zCLI command line tool.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/vpn',
      label: 'Zerops VPN',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['globe-europe'],
        description: 'Connect to your services easily with Zerops VPN.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/java/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Java Overview
description: Learn about working with Java with ease on Zerops.
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

# Java overview

[Java ↗](https://www.java.com/en/) is a high-level, class-based, object-oriented programming language that is designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible.

## How to start

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/getting-started',
      label: 'New to Zerops?',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['rocket-launch'],
        description: 'Learn the basics by following a simple example.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/create',
      label: 'Care for details?',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['academic-cap-solid'],
        description:
          'Dive in all Zerops has to offer for your Java application.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## Feature Highlights

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/create',
      label: 'Create Java service',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['java'],
        description: 'Start with creating a Java service using GUI or zCLI.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/build-pipeline#add-zeropsyml-to-your-repository',
      label: 'Zerops.yml',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['puzzle'],
        description:
          'See a full example of zerops.yml file to create your own app.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/scaling',
      label: 'Scaling configuration',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['adjustments'],
        description:
          'Set up scaling of your Java application so that it runs smoothly while using only necessary resources.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

{" "}

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/build-process#customise-java-build-environment',
      label: 'Customize build environment',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['sparkles'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/customize-runtime',
      label: 'Customize runtime environment',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['sparkles-solid'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## When in doubt, reach out

Don't know how to start or got stuck during the process? You might not be the first one, visit the FAQ section to find out.

In case you haven't found an answer (and also if you have), we and our community are looking forward to hearing from you on Discord.

Have you build something that others might find useful? Don't hesitate to share your knowledge!

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/faq',
      label: 'FAQ',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['chat-bubble-left-right'],
        description: 'Most common questions in one place.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54',
      label: 'Discord',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['discord'],
        description:
          'Join our core team and Zerops community on Discord. Ask questions and share your tips with other members.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## Popular Guides

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/cli',
      label: 'zCLI',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['command-line'],
        description:
          'Get even more out of Zerops with the zCLI command line tool.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/vpn',
      label: 'Zerops VPN',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['globe-europe'],
        description: 'Connect to your services easily with Zerops VPN.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>
