apps/docs/content/keydb/tutorial/quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: No-Fuss speedy trial
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

As said, there is no need for coding yet, we have created multiple repositories, **_recipes_**, containing a PostgreSQL service with a simple web application. The repo will be used as a source from which the app will be built.

1. Log in/sign up to [Zerops GUI ↗](https://app.zerops.io)
2. Choose a recipe based on your desired technology and copy the content of the yaml config in a `README` file

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-nodejs',
      label: 'Node.js + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['nodejs'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-golang',
      label: 'Go + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['go'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-php',
      label: 'PHP + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['php'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-python',
      label: 'Python + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['python'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-dotnet',
      label: '.NET + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['dotnet'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-rust',
      label: 'Rust + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['rust'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

3. In Zerops GUI, in the **Projects** box click on **Import a project** and paste the config.

4. Click on **Import project** and wait until all pipelines have finished.

**That's it, your application is now up and running! :star: Let's check it works:**

1. A _subdomain_ should have been enabled and visible in the project's **IP addressed & Public Routing Overview** box. Its format should look similar to this `https://golang1-24-8080.prg1.zerops.app`.
2. Click or the `subdomain` URL to open it in a browser and you should see

```
Entry added successfully with random data: f47ac10b-58cc-0372-8567-0e02b2c3d479. Total count: 1
```

:::tip
Do you have any questions? Check the step-by-step tutorial, browse the documentation and join our **[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54)** community to get help from our team and other members.
:::

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/keydb/tutorial/quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: No-Fuss speedy trial
description: Get started with Keydb & Zerops as fast as possible.
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

As said, there is no need for coding yet, we have created multiple repositories, **_recipes_**, containing a PostgreSQL service with a simple web application. The repo will be used as a source from which the app will be built.

1. Log in/sign up to [Zerops GUI ↗](https://app.zerops.io)
2. Choose a recipe based on your desired technology and copy the content of the yaml config in a `README` file

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-nodejs',
      label: 'Node.js + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['nodejs'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-golang',
      label: 'Go + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['go'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-php',
      label: 'PHP + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['php'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-python',
      label: 'Python + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['python'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-dotnet',
      label: '.NET + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['dotnet'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-rust',
      label: 'Rust + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['rust'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

3. In Zerops GUI, in the **Projects** box click on **Import a project** and paste the config.

4. Click on **Import project** and wait until all pipelines have finished.

**That's it, your application is now up and running! :star: Let's check it works:**

1. A _subdomain_ should have been enabled and visible in the project's **IP addressed & Public Routing Overview** box. Its format should look similar to this `https://golang1-24-8080.prg1.zerops.app`.
2. Click or the `subdomain` URL to open it in a browser and you should see

```
Entry added successfully with random data: f47ac10b-58cc-0372-8567-0e02b2c3d479. Total count: 1
```

:::tip
Do you have any questions? Check the step-by-step tutorial, browse the documentation and join our **[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54)** community to get help from our team and other members.
:::
