apps/docs/content/mariadb/tutorial/step-by-step.mdx, before:

---
title: Step-by-step tutorial
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

Choose from the technologies below and follow the guide:

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/nodejs/tutorial/runtime-sql',
      label: 'Node.js + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['nodejs'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/go/tutorial/runtime-sql',
      label: 'Go + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['go'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/php/tutorial/runtime-sql',
      label: 'PHP + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['php'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/python/tutorial/runtime-sql',
      label: 'Python + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['python'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/dotnet/tutorial/runtime-sql',
      label: '.NET + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['dotnet'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/rust/tutorial/runtime-sql',
      label: 'Rust + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['rust'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

:::tip
Have you got any additional question? Join our **[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54)** community to get help from our team and other members.
:::

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/mariadb/tutorial/step-by-step.mdx, after:

---
title: Step-by-step tutorial
description: Go through the step by step tutorial for mariadb on Zerops.
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

Choose from the technologies below and follow the guide:

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/nodejs/tutorial/runtime-sql',
      label: 'Node.js + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['nodejs'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/go/tutorial/runtime-sql',
      label: 'Go + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['go'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/php/tutorial/runtime-sql',
      label: 'PHP + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['php'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/python/tutorial/runtime-sql',
      label: 'Python + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['python'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/dotnet/tutorial/runtime-sql',
      label: '.NET + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['dotnet'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/rust/tutorial/runtime-sql',
      label: 'Rust + PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['rust'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

:::tip
Have you got any additional question? Join our **[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54)** community to get help from our team and other members.
:::
