apps/docs/content/help/contacts.mdx, before:

---
title: How to reach us
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

:construction: **We apologize for any inconvenience, we are doing our best to finish this documentation ASAP to make your Zerops experience a blast!** :construction:

In the meantime, if you have any troubles setting up your application, or if you find a specific part of the documentation missing, don't hesitate to contact our team via:

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54',
      label: 'Discord (recommended)',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['discord'],
        description:
          'The fastest way to get help from our team and other community members.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'mailto:dev@zerops.io',
      label: 'Email',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['envelope'],
        description:
          "Reach the team directly, this might take longer as the community won't be included.",
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://x.com/zeropsio',
      label: 'Twitter',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['twitter'],
        description:
          'Reach out to us by direct messagining or by tagging @zeropsio in your tweets for a response.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/help/contacts.mdx, after:

---
title: How to reach us
description: Stuck somewhere? If you are looking for some help learn how you can reach to us with ease.
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

:construction: **We apologize for any inconvenience, we are doing our best to finish this documentation ASAP to make your Zerops experience a blast!** :construction:

In the meantime, if you have any troubles setting up your application, or if you find a specific part of the documentation missing, don't hesitate to contact our team via:

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54',
      label: 'Discord (recommended)',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['discord'],
        description:
          'The fastest way to get help from our team and other community members.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'mailto:dev@zerops.io',
      label: 'Email',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['envelope'],
        description:
          "Reach the team directly, this might take longer as the community won't be included.",
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://x.com/zeropsio',
      label: 'Twitter',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['twitter'],
        description:
          'Reach out to us by direct messagining or by tagging @zeropsio in your tweets for a response.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>
