apps/docs/content/postgresql/how-to/export-import-data.mdx, before:

---
title: Export or import PostgreSQL data
---

## Use Adminer to export or import data

[Adminer ↗](https://www.adminer.org) is an open source full-featured database management tool written in PHP.

1. [Install Adminer to Zerops](/postgresql/how-to/manage#how-to-install-adminer-to-zerops)
2. Use Adminer standard export or import functions

## Use phpMyAdmin to export or import data

[phpMyAdmin ↗](https://www.phpmyadmin.net) is a free software tool written in PHP, intended to handle the administration of PostgreSQL over the Web.

1. [Install phpMyAdmin to Zerops](/postgresql/how-to/manage#how-to-install-phpmyadmin-to-zerops)
2. Use phpMyAdmin standard export or import functions

## Use a database management tool on your workstation to export or import data

Do you already use a database management tool that supports PostgreSQL on your workstation? Connect it securely to PostgreSQL from your local workspace via Zerops VPN.

Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start the VPN connection, read [how to connect to PostgreSQL remotely](/postgresql/how-to/connect#connect-to-postgresql-in-zerops-remotely).
:::caution
Do not use SSL/TLS protocols when connecting to PostgreSQL over VPN. Zerops PostgreSQL is not configured to support these protocols. The security is assured by the VPN.
:::

Once the connection to PostgreSQL is established, use the standard export or import functions of your favourite management tool.

## Use psql CLI to export or import data

If you are using the [psql ↗](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) command-line client to manage your PostgreSQL on your local workspace, you can connect it securely to PostgreSQL via Zerops VPN.

Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start the VPN connection, read [how to connect to PostgreSQL remotely](/postgresql/how-to/connect#connect-to-postgresql-in-zerops-remotely).

Once the VPN session is established, you have the secured connection to the project's private network in Zerops. You can access all project services locally by using their hostname. The only difference is that no [environment variables](/postgresql/how-to/connect#use-postgresql-environment-variables) are available when connected through VPN. To connect to PostgreSQL in Zerops you have to copy the [access details](/postgresql/how-to/connect#connect-to-postgresql-in-zerops-remotely) manually from Zerops GUI.

Use [psql ↗](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) command to connect to PostgreSQL in Zerops:

```sh
psql -h [hostname] -U [user] -p [password] -d [database_name]
```

:::caution
Do not use SSL/TLS protocols when connecting to PostgreSQL over VPN. Zerops PostgreSQL is not configured to support these protocols. The security is assured by the VPN.
:::

To export your database data and structure, use the [pg_dump ↗](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/backup-dump.html) command.

```sh
pg_dump [database_name] > dumpfilename.sql
```

To import your database data and structure, use the `mysql` command.

```sh
mysql [database_name] < dumpfilename.sql
```

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/postgresql/how-to/export-import-data.mdx, after:

---
title: Export or import PostgreSQL data
description: Learn how to export or import postgresql data on Zerops.
---

## Use Adminer to export or import data

[Adminer ↗](https://www.adminer.org) is an open source full-featured database management tool written in PHP.

1. [Install Adminer to Zerops](/postgresql/how-to/manage#how-to-install-adminer-to-zerops)
2. Use Adminer standard export or import functions

## Use phpMyAdmin to export or import data

[phpMyAdmin ↗](https://www.phpmyadmin.net) is a free software tool written in PHP, intended to handle the administration of PostgreSQL over the Web.

1. [Install phpMyAdmin to Zerops](/postgresql/how-to/manage#how-to-install-phpmyadmin-to-zerops)
2. Use phpMyAdmin standard export or import functions

## Use a database management tool on your workstation to export or import data

Do you already use a database management tool that supports PostgreSQL on your workstation? Connect it securely to PostgreSQL from your local workspace via Zerops VPN.

Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start the VPN connection, read [how to connect to PostgreSQL remotely](/postgresql/how-to/connect#connect-to-postgresql-in-zerops-remotely).
:::caution
Do not use SSL/TLS protocols when connecting to PostgreSQL over VPN. Zerops PostgreSQL is not configured to support these protocols. The security is assured by the VPN.
:::

Once the connection to PostgreSQL is established, use the standard export or import functions of your favourite management tool.

## Use psql CLI to export or import data

If you are using the [psql ↗](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) command-line client to manage your PostgreSQL on your local workspace, you can connect it securely to PostgreSQL via Zerops VPN.

Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start the VPN connection, read [how to connect to PostgreSQL remotely](/postgresql/how-to/connect#connect-to-postgresql-in-zerops-remotely).

Once the VPN session is established, you have the secured connection to the project's private network in Zerops. You can access all project services locally by using their hostname. The only difference is that no [environment variables](/postgresql/how-to/connect#use-postgresql-environment-variables) are available when connected through VPN. To connect to PostgreSQL in Zerops you have to copy the [access details](/postgresql/how-to/connect#connect-to-postgresql-in-zerops-remotely) manually from Zerops GUI.

Use [psql ↗](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) command to connect to PostgreSQL in Zerops:

```sh
psql -h [hostname] -U [user] -p [password] -d [database_name]
```

:::caution
Do not use SSL/TLS protocols when connecting to PostgreSQL over VPN. Zerops PostgreSQL is not configured to support these protocols. The security is assured by the VPN.
:::

To export your database data and structure, use the [pg_dump ↗](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/backup-dump.html) command.

```sh
pg_dump [database_name] > dumpfilename.sql
```

To import your database data and structure, use the `mysql` command.

```sh
mysql [database_name] < dumpfilename.sql
```
