apps/docs/content/elasticsearch/how-to/create.mdx, before:

---
title: Create an Elasticsearch service
description: Learn how to create an elasticsearch service on Zerops.
---

...

## Create Elasticsearch using Zerops GUI

First, set up a project in Zerops GUI. Then go to the project dashboard page and choose **Add new service** in the left menu in the **Services** block. Then add a new Elasticsearch service:

**// TODO screenshot (add a new service page)**

<table className="w-full my-1.5">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Parameter</strong></th>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Description</strong></th>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Limitations</strong></th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>hostname</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">A unique service identifier like `elasticsearch`,`es` etc.</td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        <br />- duplicate services with the same name in the same project are forbidden
        <br />- maximum 25 characters
        <br />- must contain only lowercase ASCII letters (a-z) or numbers (0-9)
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

:::caution
The hostname is fixed after the service is created. It can't be changed later.
:::

### Choose Elasticsearch service mode

Zerops provides Elasticsearch service in two modes: **Highly available** and **Single container**.

**// TODO image (add a new Elasticsearch page - Automatic scaling section)**

#### Highly available

Creates a Elasticsearch cluster with **3 database containers** and **1 free nginx balancer**.
This mode is suited for production.

Zerops always keeps the 3 database containers on different physical machines. All your data is stored redundantly in 3 identical copies. In case of a failure of a container or the underlying physical machine, Zerops automatically disconnects the failed container from the cluster, creates a new container and syncs all data from the remaining 2 copies. Finally the broken container is automatically deleted.

[Learn more] about specific behaviour and technical limitations of the Elasticsearch cluster.

#### Single container

A Elasticsearch database installed in a single container is created. Useful for non-essential data or dev environments.

:::caution
Your data is stored only in a single container. If the container or the underlying physical machine fails, your data since the last backup are lost. Zerops doesn't provide any automatic repairs of single node Elasticsearch services.
:::

:::info
The Elasticsearch service mode is fixed after the service is created. It can't be changed later.
:::

### Choose Elasticsearch version

Currently Elasticsearch **v6** and **v7** versions are available.

### Set auto scaling configuration

Zerops scales the Elasticsearch services automatically by raising or lowering the hardware resources of each database container.

#### CPU Mode

**Shared**
Your application gets a full physical CPU core, but it is shared with up to 10 other applications. In this mode the power your application gets is depended on other applications running on the same CPU core. At best case scenario your application gets 10/10 of CPU core power and 1/10 at worst case scenario.

**Dedicated**
The CPU core is dedicated to your application.

:::info
See the [pricing](https://zerops.io/#pricing) for the difference between CPU modes.
:::

Choose the CPU mode when starting a new service or change it later. The CPU mode doesn't change automatically.

#### Vertical auto scaling

Vertical auto scaling has following default configuration:

<table className="w-full my-1.5">
   <thead>
     <tr>
       <th className="w-fit"><strong>Resources Type</strong></th>
       <th className="w-fit"><strong>Minimum resource</strong></th>
       <th className="w-fit"><strong>Maximum resource</strong></th>
     </tr>
   </thead>
   <tbody>
     <tr>
       <td className="w-fit"><strong>CPU cores</strong></td>
       <td className="w-fit">1</td>
       <td className="w-fit">5</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
       <td className="w-fit"><strong>RAM</strong></td>
       <td className="w-fit">0.25 GB</td>
       <td className="w-fit">32 GB</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
       <td className="w-fit"><strong>Disk</strong></td>
       <td className="w-fit">1 GB</td>
       <td className="w-fit">100 GB</td>
     </tr>
   </tbody>
 </table>

For most cases, the default parameters will work without issues. If you need to limit the cost of the Elasticsearch service, lower the maximal resources. Zerops will never scale above the selected maximums.

When you are experiencing problems with insufficient Elasticsearch performance or capacity, increase the minimal resources. Zerops will never scale below the selected minimums.

:::tip
Learn more about how to [fine tune](/elasticsearch/how-to/scaling#fine-tune-the-auto-scaling) the auto scaling to fit your application needs.
:::

:::info
You can change the auto scaling parameters later.
:::

:::tip
[Learn more](/elasticsearch/how-to/scale) about Elasticsearch auto scaling.
:::

## Create Elasticsearch using zCLI

zCLI is the Zerops command-line tool. To create a new Elasticsearch service via the command-line, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Create a project description file](#create-a-project-description-file)
3. Create a project and a Elasticsearch service

### Create a project description file

Zerops uses a yaml format file to describe the project infrastructure.

#### Basic example

Create a directory `my-project`. Create a `description.yml` file inside the directory with the following content:

```yml
# basic project data
project:
  # project name
  name: my-project
# array of project services
services:
  - # service name
    hostname: elasticsearch1
    # service type and version number in elasticsearch@7 format
    type: elasticsearch@7
    # mode of operation "HA"/"NON_HA"
    mode: NON_HA
```

The yaml file describes your future project infrastructure. The project will contain one Elasticsearch service in the [single container](#single-container) mode with default [auto scaling](/elasticsearch/how-to/scale) configuration. Hostname will be set to `elasticsearch1`.

#### Full example

Create a directory `my-project`. Create a `description.yml` file inside the directory with the following content:

```yml
# basic project data
project:
  # project name
  name: my-project
  # optional: project description
  description: A project with a Elasticsearch database
  # optional: project tags
  tags:
    - DEMO
    - ZEROPS
# array of project services
services:
  - # first service hostname
    hostname: elasticsearch1
    # service type and version number in elasticsearch@7 format
    type: elasticsearch@7
    # mode of operation "HA"/"NON_HA"
    mode: HA
    # optional: vertical auto scaling customization
    verticalAutoscaling:
      cpuMode: DEDICATED
      minCpu: 2
      maxCpu: 5
      minRam: 2
      maxRam: 24
      minDisk: 6
      maxDisk: 50
      startCpuCoreCount: 3
      minFreeRamGB: 0.5
      minFreeRamPercent: 20
  - # second service hostname
    hostname: elasticsearch2
    # service type and version number in elasticsearch@7 format
    type: elasticsearch@7
    # mode of operation "HA"/"non_HA"
    mode: NON_HA
```

The yaml file describes your future project infrastructure. The project will contain two Elasticsearch services.

The hostname of the first service will be set to `elasticsearch1`. The [high availability](#highly-available) mode will be chosen and the custom [auto scaling configuration](/elasticsearch/how-to/scale) will be set.

The hostname of the second service will be set to `elasticsearch2`. The [single container](#single-container) mode will be chosen and the default [auto scaling configuration](/elasticsearch/how-to/scale) will be set.

#### Description of description.yml parameters

The `project:` section is required. Only one project can be defined.

<table className="w-full my-1.5">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Parameter</strong></th>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Description</strong></th>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Limitations</strong></th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>name</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">The name of the new project. Duplicates are allowed.</td>
      <td className="w-fit"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>description</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>Optional.</strong> Description of the new project.</td>
      <td className="w-fit">Maximum 255 characters.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>tags</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>Optional.</strong> One or more string tags. Tags do not have a functional meaning, they only provide better orientation in projects.</td>
      <td className="w-fit"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


At least one service in `services:` section is required. You can create a project with multiple services. The example above contains only Elasticsearch services but you can create a `description.yml` with [different types] of services.

<table className="w-full my-1.5">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Parameter</strong></th>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Description</strong></th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>hostname</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        The unique service identifier.
         
        The hostname of the new database will be set to the `hostname` value.
         
        <strong>Limitations:</strong>
        <ul>
        <li>duplicate services with the same name in the same project are forbidden</li>
        <li>maximum 25 characters</li>
        <li>must contain only lowercase ASCII letters (a-z) or numbers (0-9)</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>type</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        Specifies the service type and version.
        <br />
        See what [elasticsearch service types](/references/importyml/type-list#database-services) are currently supported.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>mode</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        Defines the operation mode of Elasticsearch service.
         
        <strong>HA</strong>
        <br />
        Creates a Elasticsearch cluster with 3 database containers and 1 free nginx balancer. This mode is suited for production.
         
        Zerops always keeps the 3 database containers on different physical machines. All your data is stored redundantly in 3 identical copies. In case of a failure of a container or the underlying physical machine, Zerops automatically disconnects the failed container from the cluster, creates a new container and syncs all data from the remaining 2 copies. Finally the broken container is automatically deleted.
         
        <strong>NON_HA</strong>
        <br />
        Zerops will create a Elasticsearch database installed in a single container. Useful for non-essential data or dev environments.
         
        Your data is stored only in a single container. If the container or the underlying physical machine fails, your data since the last backup are lost. Zerops doesn't provide any automatic repairs of single node Elasticsearch services.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>verticalAutoscaling</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        <strong>Optional.</strong> Defines <a href="/elasticsearch/how-to/create#set-auto-scaling-configuration">custom vertical auto scaling parameters</a>.
        <br />
        All verticalAutoscaling attributes are optional. Not specified attributes will be set to their default values.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>- cpuMode</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        <strong>Optional.</strong> Accepts `SHARED`, `DEDICATED` values. Default is `SHARED`
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>- minCpu/maxCpu</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        <strong>Optional.</strong> Set the minCpu or maxCpu in CPU cores (integer).
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>- minRam/maxRam</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        <strong>Optional.</strong> Set the minRam or maxRam in GB (float).
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>- minDisk/maxDisk</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        <strong>Optional.</strong> Set the minDisk or maxDisk in GB (float).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

:::caution
The Elasticsearch service **hostname** and **mode** are fixed after the service is created. They can't be changed later.
:::

### Create a project based on the description.yml

When you have your `description.yml` ready, use the `zcli project project-import` command to create a new project and the service infrastructure.

```sh
Usage:
  zcli project project-import importYamlPath [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help                the project import command.
      --orgId string        If you have access to more than one organization, you must specify the org ID for which the
                            project is to be created.
      --workingDie string   Sets a custom working directory. Default working directory is the current directory. (default "./")
```

Zerops will create a project and one or more services based on the `description.yml` content.

Maximum size of the `description.yml` file is 100 kB.

You don't specify the project name in the `zcli project project-import` command, because the project name is defined in the `description.yml`.

If you have access to more than one client, you must specify the client ID for which the project is to be created. The `clientID` is located in the Zerops GUI under the client name on the project dashboard page.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/client_id.png"
    alt="image"
    width="70%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>
### Add Elasticsearch service to an existing project

#### Example

Create a directory `my-project` if it doesn't exist. Create an `import.yml` file inside the `my-project` directory with following content:

```bash
# array of project services
services:
  -
    # service name
    hostname: elasticsearch1
    # service type and version number in elasticsearch@7 format
    type: elasticsearch@7
    # mode of operation "HA"/"NON_HA"
    mode: NON_HA
```

The yaml file describes the list of one or more services that you want to add to your existing project. In the example above, one Elasticsearch service in the [single container mode](#single-container) with default [auto scaling](/elasticsearch/how-to/scale) configuration will be added to your project. Hostname of the new service will be set to `elasticsearch1`.

The content of the `services:` section of `import.yml` is identical to the [project description file](#create-a-project-description-file). The `import.yml` never contains the `project:` section because the project already exists.

When you have your `import.yml` ready, use the `zcli project service-import` command to add one or more services to your existing Zerops project.

```sh
Usage:
  zcli project service-import importYamlPath [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help               the project service import command.
      --projectId string   If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
```

zCLI commands are interactive, when you press enter after `zcli project service-import importYamlPath`, you will be given a list of your projects to choose from.

Maximum size of the `import.yml` file is 100 kB.

Commit message:

add mode option to codeblocks

apps/docs/content/elasticsearch/how-to/create.mdx, after:

---
title: Create an Elasticsearch service
description: Learn how to create an elasticsearch service on Zerops.
---

...

## Create Elasticsearch using Zerops GUI

First, set up a project in Zerops GUI. Then go to the project dashboard page and choose **Add new service** in the left menu in the **Services** block. Then add a new Elasticsearch service:

**// TODO screenshot (add a new service page)**

<table className="w-full my-1.5">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Parameter</strong></th>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Description</strong></th>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Limitations</strong></th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>hostname</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">A unique service identifier like `elasticsearch`,`es` etc.</td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        <br />- duplicate services with the same name in the same project are forbidden
        <br />- maximum 25 characters
        <br />- must contain only lowercase ASCII letters (a-z) or numbers (0-9)
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

:::caution
The hostname is fixed after the service is created. It can't be changed later.
:::

### Choose Elasticsearch service mode

Zerops provides Elasticsearch service in two modes: **Highly available** and **Single container**.

**// TODO image (add a new Elasticsearch page - Automatic scaling section)**

#### Highly available

Creates a Elasticsearch cluster with **3 database containers** and **1 free nginx balancer**.
This mode is suited for production.

Zerops always keeps the 3 database containers on different physical machines. All your data is stored redundantly in 3 identical copies. In case of a failure of a container or the underlying physical machine, Zerops automatically disconnects the failed container from the cluster, creates a new container and syncs all data from the remaining 2 copies. Finally the broken container is automatically deleted.

[Learn more] about specific behaviour and technical limitations of the Elasticsearch cluster.

#### Single container

A Elasticsearch database installed in a single container is created. Useful for non-essential data or dev environments.

:::caution
Your data is stored only in a single container. If the container or the underlying physical machine fails, your data since the last backup are lost. Zerops doesn't provide any automatic repairs of single node Elasticsearch services.
:::

:::info
The Elasticsearch service mode is fixed after the service is created. It can't be changed later.
:::

### Choose Elasticsearch version

Currently Elasticsearch **v6** and **v7** versions are available.

### Set auto scaling configuration

Zerops scales the Elasticsearch services automatically by raising or lowering the hardware resources of each database container.

#### CPU Mode

**Shared**
Your application gets a full physical CPU core, but it is shared with up to 10 other applications. In this mode the power your application gets is depended on other applications running on the same CPU core. At best case scenario your application gets 10/10 of CPU core power and 1/10 at worst case scenario.

**Dedicated**
The CPU core is dedicated to your application.

:::info
See the [pricing](https://zerops.io/#pricing) for the difference between CPU modes.
:::

Choose the CPU mode when starting a new service or change it later. The CPU mode doesn't change automatically.

#### Vertical auto scaling

Vertical auto scaling has following default configuration:

<table className="w-full my-1.5">
   <thead>
     <tr>
       <th className="w-fit"><strong>Resources Type</strong></th>
       <th className="w-fit"><strong>Minimum resource</strong></th>
       <th className="w-fit"><strong>Maximum resource</strong></th>
     </tr>
   </thead>
   <tbody>
     <tr>
       <td className="w-fit"><strong>CPU cores</strong></td>
       <td className="w-fit">1</td>
       <td className="w-fit">5</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
       <td className="w-fit"><strong>RAM</strong></td>
       <td className="w-fit">0.25 GB</td>
       <td className="w-fit">32 GB</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
       <td className="w-fit"><strong>Disk</strong></td>
       <td className="w-fit">1 GB</td>
       <td className="w-fit">100 GB</td>
     </tr>
   </tbody>
 </table>

For most cases, the default parameters will work without issues. If you need to limit the cost of the Elasticsearch service, lower the maximal resources. Zerops will never scale above the selected maximums.

When you are experiencing problems with insufficient Elasticsearch performance or capacity, increase the minimal resources. Zerops will never scale below the selected minimums.

:::tip
Learn more about how to [fine tune](/elasticsearch/how-to/scaling#fine-tune-the-auto-scaling) the auto scaling to fit your application needs.
:::

:::info
You can change the auto scaling parameters later.
:::

:::tip
[Learn more](/elasticsearch/how-to/scale) about Elasticsearch auto scaling.
:::

## Create Elasticsearch using zCLI

zCLI is the Zerops command-line tool. To create a new Elasticsearch service via the command-line, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Create a project description file](#create-a-project-description-file)
3. Create a project and a Elasticsearch service

### Create a project description file

Zerops uses a yaml format file to describe the project infrastructure.

#### Basic example

Create a directory `my-project`. Create a `description.yml` file inside the directory with the following content:

```yml
# basic project data
project:
  # project name
  name: my-project
  # Project mode (LIGHT or SERIOUS)
  # The default is LIGHT, so it is not necessary to explicitly include it.
  mode: LIGHT
# array of project services
services:
  - # service name
    hostname: elasticsearch1
    # service type and version number in elasticsearch@7 format
    type: elasticsearch@7
    # mode of operation "HA"/"NON_HA"
    mode: NON_HA
```

The yaml file describes your future project infrastructure. The project will contain one Elasticsearch service in the [single container](#single-container) mode with default [auto scaling](/elasticsearch/how-to/scale) configuration. Hostname will be set to `elasticsearch1`.

#### Full example

Create a directory `my-project`. Create a `description.yml` file inside the directory with the following content:

```yml
# basic project data
project:
  # project name
  name: my-project
  # optional: project description
  description: A project with a Elasticsearch database
  # optional: project tags
  tags:
    - DEMO
    - ZEROPS
# array of project services
services:
  - # first service hostname
    hostname: elasticsearch1
    # service type and version number in elasticsearch@7 format
    type: elasticsearch@7
    # mode of operation "HA"/"NON_HA"
    mode: HA
    # optional: vertical auto scaling customization
    verticalAutoscaling:
      cpuMode: DEDICATED
      minCpu: 2
      maxCpu: 5
      minRam: 2
      maxRam: 24
      minDisk: 6
      maxDisk: 50
      startCpuCoreCount: 3
      minFreeRamGB: 0.5
      minFreeRamPercent: 20
  - # second service hostname
    hostname: elasticsearch2
    # service type and version number in elasticsearch@7 format
    type: elasticsearch@7
    # mode of operation "HA"/"non_HA"
    mode: NON_HA
```

The yaml file describes your future project infrastructure. The project will contain two Elasticsearch services.

The hostname of the first service will be set to `elasticsearch1`. The [high availability](#highly-available) mode will be chosen and the custom [auto scaling configuration](/elasticsearch/how-to/scale) will be set.

The hostname of the second service will be set to `elasticsearch2`. The [single container](#single-container) mode will be chosen and the default [auto scaling configuration](/elasticsearch/how-to/scale) will be set.

#### Description of description.yml parameters

The `project:` section is required. Only one project can be defined.

<table className="w-full my-1.5">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Parameter</strong></th>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Description</strong></th>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Limitations</strong></th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>name</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">The name of the new project. Duplicates are allowed.</td>
      <td className="w-fit"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>description</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>Optional.</strong> Description of the new project.</td>
      <td className="w-fit">Maximum 255 characters.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>tags</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>Optional.</strong> One or more string tags. Tags do not have a functional meaning, they only provide better orientation in projects.</td>
      <td className="w-fit"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


At least one service in `services:` section is required. You can create a project with multiple services. The example above contains only Elasticsearch services but you can create a `description.yml` with [different types] of services.

<table className="w-full my-1.5">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Parameter</strong></th>
      <th className="w-fit"><strong>Description</strong></th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>hostname</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        The unique service identifier.
         
        The hostname of the new database will be set to the `hostname` value.
         
        <strong>Limitations:</strong>
        <ul>
        <li>duplicate services with the same name in the same project are forbidden</li>
        <li>maximum 25 characters</li>
        <li>must contain only lowercase ASCII letters (a-z) or numbers (0-9)</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>type</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        Specifies the service type and version.
        <br />
        See what [elasticsearch service types](/references/importyml/type-list#database-services) are currently supported.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>mode</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        Defines the operation mode of Elasticsearch service.
         
        <strong>HA</strong>
        <br />
        Creates a Elasticsearch cluster with 3 database containers and 1 free nginx balancer. This mode is suited for production.
         
        Zerops always keeps the 3 database containers on different physical machines. All your data is stored redundantly in 3 identical copies. In case of a failure of a container or the underlying physical machine, Zerops automatically disconnects the failed container from the cluster, creates a new container and syncs all data from the remaining 2 copies. Finally the broken container is automatically deleted.
         
        <strong>NON_HA</strong>
        <br />
        Zerops will create a Elasticsearch database installed in a single container. Useful for non-essential data or dev environments.
         
        Your data is stored only in a single container. If the container or the underlying physical machine fails, your data since the last backup are lost. Zerops doesn't provide any automatic repairs of single node Elasticsearch services.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>verticalAutoscaling</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        <strong>Optional.</strong> Defines <a href="/elasticsearch/how-to/create#set-auto-scaling-configuration">custom vertical auto scaling parameters</a>.
        <br />
        All verticalAutoscaling attributes are optional. Not specified attributes will be set to their default values.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>- cpuMode</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        <strong>Optional.</strong> Accepts `SHARED`, `DEDICATED` values. Default is `SHARED`
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>- minCpu/maxCpu</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        <strong>Optional.</strong> Set the minCpu or maxCpu in CPU cores (integer).
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>- minRam/maxRam</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        <strong>Optional.</strong> Set the minRam or maxRam in GB (float).
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="w-fit"><strong>- minDisk/maxDisk</strong></td>
      <td className="w-fit">
        <strong>Optional.</strong> Set the minDisk or maxDisk in GB (float).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

:::caution
The Elasticsearch service **hostname** and **mode** are fixed after the service is created. They can't be changed later.
:::

### Create a project based on the description.yml

When you have your `description.yml` ready, use the `zcli project project-import` command to create a new project and the service infrastructure.

```sh
Usage:
  zcli project project-import importYamlPath [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help                the project import command.
      --orgId string        If you have access to more than one organization, you must specify the org ID for which the
                            project is to be created.
      --workingDie string   Sets a custom working directory. Default working directory is the current directory. (default "./")
```

Zerops will create a project and one or more services based on the `description.yml` content.

Maximum size of the `description.yml` file is 100 kB.

You don't specify the project name in the `zcli project project-import` command, because the project name is defined in the `description.yml`.

If you have access to more than one client, you must specify the client ID for which the project is to be created. The `clientID` is located in the Zerops GUI under the client name on the project dashboard page.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/client_id.png"
    alt="image"
    width="70%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>
### Add Elasticsearch service to an existing project

#### Example

Create a directory `my-project` if it doesn't exist. Create an `import.yml` file inside the `my-project` directory with following content:

```bash
# array of project services
services:
  -
    # service name
    hostname: elasticsearch1
    # service type and version number in elasticsearch@7 format
    type: elasticsearch@7
    # mode of operation "HA"/"NON_HA"
    mode: NON_HA
```

The yaml file describes the list of one or more services that you want to add to your existing project. In the example above, one Elasticsearch service in the [single container mode](#single-container) with default [auto scaling](/elasticsearch/how-to/scale) configuration will be added to your project. Hostname of the new service will be set to `elasticsearch1`.

The content of the `services:` section of `import.yml` is identical to the [project description file](#create-a-project-description-file). The `import.yml` never contains the `project:` section because the project already exists.

When you have your `import.yml` ready, use the `zcli project service-import` command to add one or more services to your existing Zerops project.

```sh
Usage:
  zcli project service-import importYamlPath [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help               the project service import command.
      --projectId string   If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
```

zCLI commands are interactive, when you press enter after `zcli project service-import importYamlPath`, you will be given a list of your projects to choose from.

Maximum size of the `import.yml` file is 100 kB.
