apps/docs/content/java/how-to/build-process.mdx, before:

---
title: Java build process
description: Learn more about java's build process.
---

import data from '@site/static/data.json';

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/build_deploy_pipeline-step2.png"
    alt="image"
    width="100%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

## Description of the build process

Zerops starts a temporary build container and performs following actions:

1. Installs the build environment
2. Downloads your application source code from [GitHub ↗](https://www.github.com), [GitLab ↗](https://www.gitlab.com) or via [Zerops CLI](/references/cli)
3. Optionally [customises the build environment](/java/how-to/build-process#customise-java-build-environment)
4. Runs the build commands
5. Uploads the application artefact to the internal Zerops storage
6. Optionally [customizes the runtime environment](/java/how-to/customize-runtime)
7. [Deploys your application](/java/how-to/deploy-process)

The build container is automatically deleted after the build has finished or failed.

## Cancel running build

When you know that the running build is not correct and you want to cancel it, you can do it in Zerops GUI. Go to the service detail, select **Service dashboard & runtime containers** from the left menu and click on the **Open pipeline detail** button. Then click on the **Cancel build** button.

**// TODO screenshot of a running build pipeline**

The build cancellation is available before the build pipeline is finished. When the build is finished, the deployment cannot be cancelled.

## Customise Java build environment

The default Java build environment contains:

- <span>{data.alpineVersion}</span>
- selected version of Java defined in `zerops.yml` [build.base](/java/how-to/build-pipeline#base) parameter
- [zCLI](/references/cli), Zerops command line tool
- `git` and `wget`

If you prefer the Ubuntu OS instead of Alpine, set the `<a href="/java/how-to/build-pipeline#os">build.os</a>` attribute to `ubuntu`. To install additional packages or tools add one or more [build.prepareCommands](/java/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands) commands to your `zerops.yml`.

:::info
The application code is available in the `/var/www` folder in your build container before the prepare commands are triggered. This allows you to use any file from your application code in your prepare commands (e.g. a configuration file).
:::

## Java build hardware resources

Build of your Java application is run in a separate build container with following resource configuration:

| HW resource   | Minimum | Maximum |
| ------------- | ------- | ------- |
| **CPU cores** | 6       | 20      |
| **RAM**       | 8 GB    | 8 GB    |
| **Disk**      | 1 GB    | 100 GB  |

The build container is always started with the minimum hardware resources and scales vertically up to the maximum resources.

:::info
Hardware resources of the build containers are not charged. The build costs are covered by the standard Zerops [project fee](https://zerops.io/#pricing).
:::

## Build time limit

The time limit for the whole build pipeline is **1 hour**. After 1 hour, Zerops will terminate the build pipeline and delete the build container.

## Troubleshooting build-related problems

### Failure of a build prepare command

If any [prepare command](/java/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands) fails, it returns an exit code other than 0 and the build is canceled. Read the [build log](/java/how-to/logs#build-log) to troubleshoot the error. If the command ends successfully, it returns the exit code 0 and Zerops triggers the following command. When all `prepareCommands` commands are finished, your custom build environment is ready for the build phase.

### Invalidate the build cache

Some packages or tools can take a long time to install. Therefore, Zerops caches your custom build environment after each successful build where the `prepareCommands` commands were used. When the second or following build is triggered, Zerops will use the build cache from the previous build if both following conditions are met:

1. Content of the [build.base](/java/how-to/build-pipeline#base) and [build.prepareCommands](/java/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands) attributes didn't change from the previous build
2. The build cache wasn't invalidated in the Zerops GUI.

To invalidate the Zerops build cache go to your service detail in Zerops GUI, choose **Service dashboard & runtime containers** from the left menu and click on the **Open pipeline detail** button. Then click on the **Invalidate build cache** icon.

**// TODO screenshot**

When the build cache is used, Zerops doesn't run the prepare commands and the build of your application is faster.

### Failure of a build command

If any [build command](/java/how-to/build-pipeline#build) fails, it returns an exit code other than 0 and the build is canceled. Read the [build log](/java/how-to/logs#build-log) to troubleshoot the error. If the error log doesn't contain any specific error message, try to run your build with the verbose `-X` debug option.

```yml
build:
  - ./mvnw -X clean install
```

If the command ends successfully, it returns the exit code 0 and Zerops triggers the following command. When all `buildCommands` are finished, the application build is completed and ready for the [deploy](/java/how-to/deploy-process) phase.

Commit message:

Fix #95 (#96)
* fix: build-process

* docs: clarification

* refractor: move customize runtime to its own page

* fix nodejs's customize-runtime

* fix title mismatch and hyperlink

* fix java build-process and customize-runtime

* fix Python's customize-runtime

* fix Go's customize-runtime

* fix PHP's customize-runtime

* fix Nginx's customize-runtime

* fix Rust's customize-runtime

* fix infastracture.mdx

* more fixes regarding #95 > 2-3

* fix build-pipeline and customize-runtime

* fix infrastructure

* fix customize-runtime

* fix customize-runtime hyperlinks

* re: add customize build environment to build-process

* Revert "re: add customize build environment to build-process"

This reverts commit 113786a20bac0b72471d6af5219c2fa60d271e76.

* feat: re-add customize runtime into build-process and fix customize-runtime

* feat: uppercased

* fix: typos

* fix: codeblocks and hyperlink conflict, it causes it to copy -> redirect.

* fix incorrect reference

* remove duplicate heading

* note

* more fixes

apps/docs/content/java/how-to/build-process.mdx, after:

---
title: Java build process
description: Learn more about java's build process.
---

import data from '@site/static/data.json';

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/build_deploy_pipeline-step2.png"
    alt="image"
    width="100%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

## Customise Java build environment

The default Java build environment contains:

- <span>{data.alpineCurrentVersion}</span>
- Selected version of Java when the runtime service was created.
- [zCLI](/references/cli)
- Git

:::note
To use Ubuntu instead of the default Alpine, set the [build.os](/references/zeropsyml#os-optional) attribute.

Additional packages and tools can be installed using [build.prepareCommands](/references/zeropsyml#preparecommands-optional).
:::

## Description of the build process

Zerops starts a temporary build container and performs following actions:

1. Installs the build environment
2. Downloads your application source code from [GitHub ↗](https://www.github.com), [GitLab ↗](https://www.gitlab.com) or via [Zerops CLI](/references/cli)
3. Optionally [customises the build environment](/java/how-to/build-process#customise-java-build-environment)
4. Runs the build commands
5. Uploads the application artefact to the internal Zerops storage
6. Optionally [customizes the runtime environment](/java/how-to/customize-runtime)
7. [Deploys your application](/java/how-to/deploy-process)

The build container is automatically deleted after the build has finished or failed.

## Cancel running build

When you know that the running build is not correct and you want to cancel it, you can do it in Zerops GUI. Go to the service detail, select **Service dashboard & runtime containers** from the left menu and click on the **Open pipeline detail** button. Then click on the **Cancel build** button.

{/* ** TODO screenshot of a running build pipeline** */}

The build cancellation is available before the build pipeline is finished. When the build is finished, the deployment cannot be cancelled.

:::info
The application code is available in the `/var/www` folder in your build container before the prepare commands are triggered. This allows you to use any file from your application code in your prepare commands (e.g. a configuration file).
:::

## Java build hardware resources

Build of your Java application is run in a separate build container with following resource configuration:

| HW resource   | Minimum | Maximum |
| ------------- | ------- | ------- |
| **CPU cores** | 6       | 20      |
| **RAM**       | 8 GB    | 8 GB    |
| **Disk**      | 1 GB    | 100 GB  |

The build container is always started with the minimum hardware resources and scales vertically up to the maximum resources.

:::info
Hardware resources of the build containers are not charged. The build costs are covered by the standard Zerops [project fee](https://zerops.io/#pricing).
:::

## Build time limit

The time limit for the whole build pipeline is **1 hour**. After 1 hour, Zerops will terminate the build pipeline and delete the build container.

## Troubleshooting build-related problems

### Failure of a build prepare command

If any [prepare command](/java/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands) fails, it returns an exit code other than 0 and the build is canceled. Read the [build log](/java/how-to/logs#build-log) to troubleshoot the error. If the command ends successfully, it returns the exit code 0 and Zerops triggers the following command. When all `prepareCommands` commands are finished, your custom build environment is ready for the build phase.

### Invalidate the build cache

Some packages or tools can take a long time to install. Therefore, Zerops caches your custom build environment after each successful build where the `prepareCommands` commands were used. When the second or following build is triggered, Zerops will use the build cache from the previous build if both following conditions are met:

1. Content of the [build.base](/java/how-to/build-pipeline#base) and [build.prepareCommands](/java/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands) attributes didn't change from the previous build
2. The build cache wasn't invalidated in the Zerops GUI.

To invalidate the Zerops build cache go to your service detail in Zerops GUI, choose **Service dashboard & runtime containers** from the left menu and click on the **Open pipeline detail** button. Then click on the **Invalidate build cache** icon.

{/* **TODO screenshot** */}

When the build cache is used, Zerops doesn't run the prepare commands and the build of your application is faster.

### Failure of a build command

If any [build command](/java/how-to/build-pipeline#build) fails, it returns an exit code other than 0 and the build is canceled. Read the [build log](/java/how-to/logs#build-log) to troubleshoot the error. If the error log doesn't contain any specific error message, try to run your build with the verbose `-X` debug option.

```yml
build:
  - ./mvnw -X clean install
```

If the command ends successfully, it returns the exit code 0 and Zerops triggers the following command. When all `buildCommands` are finished, the application build is completed and ready for the [deploy](/java/how-to/deploy-process) phase.
