apps/docs/content/java/how-to/controls.mdx, before:

---
title: Stop and start Java service
---

Zerops allows you to stop any service. Stopped services only consume disk.

## Stop, start and restart Java service in Zerops GUI

To stop the Java service in Zerops GUI go to the project dashboard and select the **Stop** menu item in the top right corner.

**// TODO screenshot (show menu with the start and stop items on a service)**

To start the stopped Java service choose the **Start** item from the same menu.

To restart the Java service choose the **Restart** item from the same menu.

## Stop and start Java using zCLI

zCLI is the Zerops command-line tool. To stop and start the Java service via the command-line, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. Run the `zcli service stop` command

```sh
Usage:
  zcli service stop [serviceIdOrName] [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help               the enable Zerops subdomain command.
      --projectId string   If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
      --serviceId string   If you have access to more than one service, you must specify the service ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
```

:::info
zCLI commands are interactive, when you press enter after `zcli service stop`, you will be given a list of your projects and services to choose from.
:::

3. Run the `zcli service start` command

```sh
Usage:
  zcli service start [{serviceName | serviceId}] [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help               the service start command.
      --projectId string   If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
      --serviceId string   If you have access to more than one service, you must specify the service ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
```

:::info
zCLI commands are interactive, when you press enter after `zcli service start`, you will be given a list of your projects and its services to choose from.
:::

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/java/how-to/controls.mdx, after:

---
title: Stop and start Java service
description: Learn how you can stop and start your java service on Zerops.
---

Zerops allows you to stop any service. Stopped services only consume disk.

## Stop, start and restart Java service in Zerops GUI

To stop the Java service in Zerops GUI go to the project dashboard and select the **Stop** menu item in the top right corner.

**// TODO screenshot (show menu with the start and stop items on a service)**

To start the stopped Java service choose the **Start** item from the same menu.

To restart the Java service choose the **Restart** item from the same menu.

## Stop and start Java using zCLI

zCLI is the Zerops command-line tool. To stop and start the Java service via the command-line, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. Run the `zcli service stop` command

```sh
Usage:
  zcli service stop [serviceIdOrName] [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help               the enable Zerops subdomain command.
      --projectId string   If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
      --serviceId string   If you have access to more than one service, you must specify the service ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
```

:::info
zCLI commands are interactive, when you press enter after `zcli service stop`, you will be given a list of your projects and services to choose from.
:::

3. Run the `zcli service start` command

```sh
Usage:
  zcli service start [{serviceName | serviceId}] [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help               the service start command.
      --projectId string   If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
      --serviceId string   If you have access to more than one service, you must specify the service ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
```

:::info
zCLI commands are interactive, when you press enter after `zcli service start`, you will be given a list of your projects and its services to choose from.
:::
