apps/docs/content/mariadb/how-to/create.mdx, before:

---
title: Create a MariaDB service
---

import Image from '/src/components/Image';

MariaDB is the open source relational database loved by developers all over the world. Created by MySQL’s original developers, MariaDB is compatible with MySQL and guaranteed to stay open source forever.

Zerops provides the MariaDB Community Server edition as a managed database service.

## Create MariaDB using Zerops GUI

First, set up a project in Zerops GUI. Then go to the project dashboard page and choose **Add new service** in the left menu in the **Services** block. Then add a new MariaDB service:

**// TODO screenshot (add a new service page)**

| Parameter    | Description                                                 | Limitations                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **hostname** | A unique service identifier like `mariadb`,`sql`, `db` etc. | - duplicate services with the same name in the same project are forbidden<br/>- maximum 25 characters<br/>- must contain only lowercase ASCII letters (a-z) or numbers (0-9) |

:::caution
The hostname is fixed after the service is created. It can't be changed later.
:::

### Choose MariaDB service mode

Zerops provides MariaDB service in two modes: **Highly available** and **Single container**.

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/screenshots/scaling7.png"
    darkImage="/img/screenshots/scaling7.png"
    alt="Scaling"
    style={{ width: '95%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

#### Highly available

Creates a MariaDB cluster with **3 database containers** and **2 free database proxies**.
This mode is suited for production.

Zerops always keeps the 3 database containers on different physical machines. All your data is stored redundantly in 3 identical copies. In case of a failure of a container or the underlying physical machine, Zerops automatically disconnects the failed container from the cluster, creates a new container and syncs all data from the remaining 2 copies. Finally the broken container is automatically deleted.

[Learn more](/mariadb/tech-details/cluster) about specific behaviour and technical limitations of the MariaDB cluster.

#### Single container

A MariaDB database installed in a single container is created. Useful for non-essential data or dev environments.

:::caution
Your data is stored only in a single container. If the container or the underlying physical machine fails, your data since the last backup are lost. Zerops doesn't provide any automatic repairs of single node MariaDB services.
:::

:::info
The MariaDB service mode is fixed after the service is created. It can't be changed later.
:::

### Choose MariaDB version

Currently only MariaDB **10.4** version is available.

### Set auto scaling configuration

Zerops scales the MariaDB services automatically by raising or lowering the hardware resources of each database container.

#### CPU Mode

**Shared**
Your application gets a full physical CPU core, but it is shared with up to 10 other applications. In this mode the power your application gets is depended on other applications running on the same CPU core. At best case scenario your application gets 10/10 of CPU core power and 1/10 at worst case scenario.

**Dedicated**
The CPU core is dedicated to your application.

:::info
See the [pricing](https://zerops.io/#pricing) for the difference between CPU modes.
:::

Choose the CPU mode when starting a new service or change it later. The CPU mode doesn't change automatically.

#### Vertical auto scaling

Vertical auto scaling has following default configuration:

| &nbsp;        | Minimum resource | Maximum resource |
| ------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| **CPU cores** | 1                | 5                |
| **RAM**       | 0.5 GB           | 32 GB            |
| **Disk**      | 1 GB             | 100 GB           |

For most cases, the default parameters will work without issues. If you need to limit the cost of the MariaDB service, lower the maximal resources. Zerops will never scale above the selected maximums.

When you are experiencing problems with insufficient MariaDB performance or capacity, increase the minimal resources. Zerops will never scale below the selected minimums.

:::tip
Learn more about how to [fine tune](/mariadb/how-to/scaling#fine-tune-the-auto-scaling) the auto scaling to fit your application needs.
:::

:::info
You can change the auto scaling parameters later.
:::

:::tip
[Learn more](/mariadb/how-to/scale) about MariaDB auto scaling.
:::

## Create MariaDB using zCLI

zCLI is the Zerops command-line tool. To create a new MariaDB service via the command-line, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Create a project description file](#create-a-project-description-file)
3. Create a project and a MariaDB service

### Create a project description file

Zerops uses a yaml format file to describe the project infrastructure.

#### Basic example

Create a directory `my-project`. Create a `description.yml` file inside the directory with the following content:

```yml
# basic project data
project:
  # project name
  name: my-project
# array of project services
services:
  - # service name
    hostname: mariadb1
    # service type and version number in mariadb@{version} format
    type: mariadb@10.4
    # mode of operation "HA"/"NON_HA"
    mode: NON_HA
```

The yaml file describes your future project infrastructure. The project will contain one MariaDB 10.4 service in the [single container](#single-container) mode with default [auto scaling](/mariadb/how-to/scale) configuration. Hostname will be set to `mariadb1`.

#### Full example

Create a directory `my-project`. Create a `description.yml` file inside the directory with the following content:

```yml
# basic project data
project:
  # project name
  name: my-project
  # optional: project description
  description: A project with a MariaDB database
  # optional: project tags
  tags:
    - DEMO
    - ZEROPS
# array of project services
services:
  - # first service hostname
    hostname: mariadb1
    # service type and version number in mariadb@{version} format
    type: mariadb@10.4
    # mode of operation "HA"/"NON_HA"
    mode: HA
    # optional: vertical auto scaling customization
    verticalAutoscaling:
      cpuMode: DEDICATED
      minCpu: 2
      maxCpu: 5
      minRam: 2
      maxRam: 24
      minDisk: 6
      maxDisk: 50
      startCpuCoreCount: 3
      minFreeRamGB: 0.5
      minFreeRamPercent: 20
  - # second service hostname
    hostname: mariadb2
    # service type and version number in mariadb@{version} format
    type: mariadb@10.4
    # mode of operation "HA"/"non_HA"
    mode: NON_HA
```

The yaml file describes your future project infrastructure. The project will contain two MariaDB 10.4 services.

The hostname of the first service will be set to `mariadb1`. The [high availability](#highly-available) mode will be chosen and the custom [auto scaling configuration](/mariadb/how-to/scale) will be set.

The hostname of the second service will be set to `mariadb2`. The [single container](#single-container) mode will be chosen and the default [auto scaling configuration](/mariadb/how-to/scale) will be set.

#### Description of description.yml parameters

The `project:` section is required. Only one project can be defined.

| Parameter       | Description                                                                                                                     | Limitations             |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| **name**        | The name of the new project. Duplicates are allowed.                                                                            |                         |
| **description** | **Optional.** Description of the new project.                                                                                   | Maximum 255 characters. |
| **tags**        | **Optional.** One or more string tags. Tags do not have a functional meaning, they only provide better orientation in projects. |

At least one service in `services:` section is required. You can create a project with multiple services. The example above contains only MariaDB services but you can create a `description.yml` with [different types] of services.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Parameter</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b>hostname</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        The unique service identifier.
        <br />
        <br />
        The hostname of the new database will be set to the{' '}
        `hostname` value. <br />
        <br />
        <b>Limitations:</b>
        <br />- duplicate services with the same name in the same project are
        forbidden
        <br />
        - maximum 25 characters
        <br />- must contain only lowercase ASCII letters (a-z) or numbers (0-9)
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b>type</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        Specifies the service type `mariadb` and version.
        <br />
        Set type:{' '}
        `
          mariadb<span>@</span>10.4
        `
        <br />
        <br />
        <b>Limitations:</b>
        <br />
        Currently only MariaDB <i>10.4</i> is available.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b>mode</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        Defines the operation mode of MariaDB service.
        <br />
        <br />
        <b>HA</b>
        <br />
        Zerops will create a MariaDB cluster with 3 database containers and 2
        free database proxies. This mode is suited for production.
        <br />
        <br />
        Zerops always keep the 3 database containers on different physical
        machines. All your data is stored redundantly in 3 copies. In case of a
        failure of a container or the underlying physical machine, Zerops
        automatically disconnects the failed container from the cluster, creates
        a new container and syncs all data from the remaining 2 copies. Finally
        the broken container is automatically deleted.
        <br />
        <br />
        <b>Limitations:</b>
        <br />
        <a href="/mariadb/tech-details/limitations">Learn more</a> about
        specific behaviour and technical limitations of the MariaDB cluster.
        <br />
        <br />
        <b>NON_HA</b>
        <br />
        Zerops will create a MariaDB database installed in a single container.
        Useful for non-essential data or dev environments.
        <br />
        <br />
        Your data is stored only in a single container. If the container or the
        underlying physical machine fails, your data since the last backup are
        lost. Zerops doesn't provide any automatic repairs of single node
        MariaDB services.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b>verticalAutoscaling</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        <b>Optional.</b> Defines{' '}
        <a href="/mariadb/how-to/create#set-auto-scaling-configuration">
          custom vertical auto scaling parameters
        </a>
        .<br />
        All verticalAutoscaling attributes are optional. Not specified
        attributes will be set to their default values.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b> - cpuMode</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        <b>Optional.</b> Accepts `SHARED`, `DEDICATED`{' '}
        values. Default is `SHARED`
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b> - minCpu/maxCpu</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        <b>Optional.</b> Set the minCpu or maxCpu in CPU cores (integer).
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b> - minRam/maxRam</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        <b>Optional.</b> Set the minRam or maxRam in GB (float).
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b> - minDisk/maxDisk</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        <b>Optional.</b> Set the minDisk or maxDisk in GB (float).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

:::caution
The MariaDB service **hostname** and **mode** are fixed after the service is created. They can't be changed later.
:::

### Create a project based on the description.yml

When you have your `description.yml` ready, use the `zcli project project-import` command to create a new project and the service infrastructure.

```sh
Usage:
  zcli project project-import importYamlPath [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help                the project import command.
      --orgId string        If you have access to more than one organization, you must specify the org ID for which the
                            project is to be created.
      --workingDie string   Sets a custom working directory. Default working directory is the current directory. (default "./")
```

Zerops will create a project and one or more services based on the `description.yml` content.

Maximum size of the `description.yml` file is 100 kB.

You don't specify the project name in the `zcli project project-import` command, because the project name is defined in the `description.yml`.

If you have access to more than one client, you must specify the client ID for which the project is to be created. The `clientID` is located in the Zerops GUI under the client name on the project dashboard page.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/client_id.png"
    alt="image"
    width="70%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

### Add MariaDB service to an existing project

#### Example

Create a directory `my-project` if it doesn't exist. Create an `import.yml` file inside the `my-project` directory with following content:

```bash
# array of project services
services:
  -
    # service name
    hostname: mariadb1
    # service type and version number in mariadb@{version} format
    type: mariadb@10.4
    # mode of operation "HA"/"NON_HA"
    mode: NON_HA
```

The yaml file describes the list of one or more services that you want to add to your existing project. In the example above, one MariaDB 10.4 service in the [single container mode](#single-container) with default [auto scaling](/mariadb/how-to/scale) configuration will be added to your project. Hostname of the new service will be set to `mariadb1`.

The content of the `services:` section of `import.yml` is identical to the [project description file](#create-a-project-description-file). The `import.yml` never contains the `project:` section because the project already exists.

When you have your `import.yml` ready, use the `zcli project service-import` command to add one or more services to your existing Zerops project.

```sh
Usage:
  zcli project service-import importYamlPath [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help               the project service import command.
      --projectId string   If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
```

zCLI commands are interactive, when you press enter after `zcli project service-import importYamlPath`, you will be given a list of your projects to choose from.

Maximum size of the `import.yml` file is 100 kB.

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/mariadb/how-to/create.mdx, after:

---
title: Create a MariaDB service
description: Learn how you can create a mariadb service in Zerops.
---

import Image from '/src/components/Image';

MariaDB is the open source relational database loved by developers all over the world. Created by MySQL’s original developers, MariaDB is compatible with MySQL and guaranteed to stay open source forever.

Zerops provides the MariaDB Community Server edition as a managed database service.

## Create MariaDB using Zerops GUI

First, set up a project in Zerops GUI. Then go to the project dashboard page and choose **Add new service** in the left menu in the **Services** block. Then add a new MariaDB service:

**// TODO screenshot (add a new service page)**

| Parameter    | Description                                                 | Limitations                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **hostname** | A unique service identifier like `mariadb`,`sql`, `db` etc. | - duplicate services with the same name in the same project are forbidden<br/>- maximum 25 characters<br/>- must contain only lowercase ASCII letters (a-z) or numbers (0-9) |

:::caution
The hostname is fixed after the service is created. It can't be changed later.
:::

### Choose MariaDB service mode

Zerops provides MariaDB service in two modes: **Highly available** and **Single container**.

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/screenshots/scaling7.png"
    darkImage="/img/screenshots/scaling7.png"
    alt="Scaling"
    style={{ width: '95%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

#### Highly available

Creates a MariaDB cluster with **3 database containers** and **2 free database proxies**.
This mode is suited for production.

Zerops always keeps the 3 database containers on different physical machines. All your data is stored redundantly in 3 identical copies. In case of a failure of a container or the underlying physical machine, Zerops automatically disconnects the failed container from the cluster, creates a new container and syncs all data from the remaining 2 copies. Finally the broken container is automatically deleted.

[Learn more](/mariadb/tech-details/cluster) about specific behaviour and technical limitations of the MariaDB cluster.

#### Single container

A MariaDB database installed in a single container is created. Useful for non-essential data or dev environments.

:::caution
Your data is stored only in a single container. If the container or the underlying physical machine fails, your data since the last backup are lost. Zerops doesn't provide any automatic repairs of single node MariaDB services.
:::

:::info
The MariaDB service mode is fixed after the service is created. It can't be changed later.
:::

### Choose MariaDB version

Currently only MariaDB **10.4** version is available.

### Set auto scaling configuration

Zerops scales the MariaDB services automatically by raising or lowering the hardware resources of each database container.

#### CPU Mode

**Shared**
Your application gets a full physical CPU core, but it is shared with up to 10 other applications. In this mode the power your application gets is depended on other applications running on the same CPU core. At best case scenario your application gets 10/10 of CPU core power and 1/10 at worst case scenario.

**Dedicated**
The CPU core is dedicated to your application.

:::info
See the [pricing](https://zerops.io/#pricing) for the difference between CPU modes.
:::

Choose the CPU mode when starting a new service or change it later. The CPU mode doesn't change automatically.

#### Vertical auto scaling

Vertical auto scaling has following default configuration:

| &nbsp;        | Minimum resource | Maximum resource |
| ------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| **CPU cores** | 1                | 5                |
| **RAM**       | 0.5 GB           | 32 GB            |
| **Disk**      | 1 GB             | 100 GB           |

For most cases, the default parameters will work without issues. If you need to limit the cost of the MariaDB service, lower the maximal resources. Zerops will never scale above the selected maximums.

When you are experiencing problems with insufficient MariaDB performance or capacity, increase the minimal resources. Zerops will never scale below the selected minimums.

:::tip
Learn more about how to [fine tune](/mariadb/how-to/scaling#fine-tune-the-auto-scaling) the auto scaling to fit your application needs.
:::

:::info
You can change the auto scaling parameters later.
:::

:::tip
[Learn more](/mariadb/how-to/scale) about MariaDB auto scaling.
:::

## Create MariaDB using zCLI

zCLI is the Zerops command-line tool. To create a new MariaDB service via the command-line, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Create a project description file](#create-a-project-description-file)
3. Create a project and a MariaDB service

### Create a project description file

Zerops uses a yaml format file to describe the project infrastructure.

#### Basic example

Create a directory `my-project`. Create a `description.yml` file inside the directory with the following content:

```yml
# basic project data
project:
  # project name
  name: my-project
# array of project services
services:
  - # service name
    hostname: mariadb1
    # service type and version number in mariadb@{version} format
    type: mariadb@10.4
    # mode of operation "HA"/"NON_HA"
    mode: NON_HA
```

The yaml file describes your future project infrastructure. The project will contain one MariaDB 10.4 service in the [single container](#single-container) mode with default [auto scaling](/mariadb/how-to/scale) configuration. Hostname will be set to `mariadb1`.

#### Full example

Create a directory `my-project`. Create a `description.yml` file inside the directory with the following content:

```yml
# basic project data
project:
  # project name
  name: my-project
  # optional: project description
  description: A project with a MariaDB database
  # optional: project tags
  tags:
    - DEMO
    - ZEROPS
# array of project services
services:
  - # first service hostname
    hostname: mariadb1
    # service type and version number in mariadb@{version} format
    type: mariadb@10.4
    # mode of operation "HA"/"NON_HA"
    mode: HA
    # optional: vertical auto scaling customization
    verticalAutoscaling:
      cpuMode: DEDICATED
      minCpu: 2
      maxCpu: 5
      minRam: 2
      maxRam: 24
      minDisk: 6
      maxDisk: 50
      startCpuCoreCount: 3
      minFreeRamGB: 0.5
      minFreeRamPercent: 20
  - # second service hostname
    hostname: mariadb2
    # service type and version number in mariadb@{version} format
    type: mariadb@10.4
    # mode of operation "HA"/"non_HA"
    mode: NON_HA
```

The yaml file describes your future project infrastructure. The project will contain two MariaDB 10.4 services.

The hostname of the first service will be set to `mariadb1`. The [high availability](#highly-available) mode will be chosen and the custom [auto scaling configuration](/mariadb/how-to/scale) will be set.

The hostname of the second service will be set to `mariadb2`. The [single container](#single-container) mode will be chosen and the default [auto scaling configuration](/mariadb/how-to/scale) will be set.

#### Description of description.yml parameters

The `project:` section is required. Only one project can be defined.

| Parameter       | Description                                                                                                                     | Limitations             |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| **name**        | The name of the new project. Duplicates are allowed.                                                                            |                         |
| **description** | **Optional.** Description of the new project.                                                                                   | Maximum 255 characters. |
| **tags**        | **Optional.** One or more string tags. Tags do not have a functional meaning, they only provide better orientation in projects. |

At least one service in `services:` section is required. You can create a project with multiple services. The example above contains only MariaDB services but you can create a `description.yml` with [different types] of services.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Parameter</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b>hostname</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        The unique service identifier.
        <br />
        <br />
        The hostname of the new database will be set to the{' '}
        `hostname` value. <br />
        <br />
        <b>Limitations:</b>
        <br />- duplicate services with the same name in the same project are
        forbidden
        <br />
        - maximum 25 characters
        <br />- must contain only lowercase ASCII letters (a-z) or numbers (0-9)
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b>type</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        Specifies the service type `mariadb` and version.
        <br />
        Set type:{' '}
        `
          mariadb<span>@</span>10.4
        `
        <br />
        <br />
        <b>Limitations:</b>
        <br />
        Currently only MariaDB <i>10.4</i> is available.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b>mode</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        Defines the operation mode of MariaDB service.
        <br />
        <br />
        <b>HA</b>
        <br />
        Zerops will create a MariaDB cluster with 3 database containers and 2
        free database proxies. This mode is suited for production.
        <br />
        <br />
        Zerops always keep the 3 database containers on different physical
        machines. All your data is stored redundantly in 3 copies. In case of a
        failure of a container or the underlying physical machine, Zerops
        automatically disconnects the failed container from the cluster, creates
        a new container and syncs all data from the remaining 2 copies. Finally
        the broken container is automatically deleted.
        <br />
        <br />
        <b>Limitations:</b>
        <br />
        <a href="/mariadb/tech-details/limitations">Learn more</a> about
        specific behaviour and technical limitations of the MariaDB cluster.
        <br />
        <br />
        <b>NON_HA</b>
        <br />
        Zerops will create a MariaDB database installed in a single container.
        Useful for non-essential data or dev environments.
        <br />
        <br />
        Your data is stored only in a single container. If the container or the
        underlying physical machine fails, your data since the last backup are
        lost. Zerops doesn't provide any automatic repairs of single node
        MariaDB services.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b>verticalAutoscaling</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        <b>Optional.</b> Defines{' '}
        <a href="/mariadb/how-to/create#set-auto-scaling-configuration">
          custom vertical auto scaling parameters
        </a>
        .<br />
        All verticalAutoscaling attributes are optional. Not specified
        attributes will be set to their default values.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b> - cpuMode</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        <b>Optional.</b> Accepts `SHARED`, `DEDICATED`{' '}
        values. Default is `SHARED`
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b> - minCpu/maxCpu</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        <b>Optional.</b> Set the minCpu or maxCpu in CPU cores (integer).
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b> - minRam/maxRam</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        <b>Optional.</b> Set the minRam or maxRam in GB (float).
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b> - minDisk/maxDisk</b>
      </td>
      <td>
        <b>Optional.</b> Set the minDisk or maxDisk in GB (float).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

:::caution
The MariaDB service **hostname** and **mode** are fixed after the service is created. They can't be changed later.
:::

### Create a project based on the description.yml

When you have your `description.yml` ready, use the `zcli project project-import` command to create a new project and the service infrastructure.

```sh
Usage:
  zcli project project-import importYamlPath [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help                the project import command.
      --orgId string        If you have access to more than one organization, you must specify the org ID for which the
                            project is to be created.
      --workingDie string   Sets a custom working directory. Default working directory is the current directory. (default "./")
```

Zerops will create a project and one or more services based on the `description.yml` content.

Maximum size of the `description.yml` file is 100 kB.

You don't specify the project name in the `zcli project project-import` command, because the project name is defined in the `description.yml`.

If you have access to more than one client, you must specify the client ID for which the project is to be created. The `clientID` is located in the Zerops GUI under the client name on the project dashboard page.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/client_id.png"
    alt="image"
    width="70%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

### Add MariaDB service to an existing project

#### Example

Create a directory `my-project` if it doesn't exist. Create an `import.yml` file inside the `my-project` directory with following content:

```bash
# array of project services
services:
  -
    # service name
    hostname: mariadb1
    # service type and version number in mariadb@{version} format
    type: mariadb@10.4
    # mode of operation "HA"/"NON_HA"
    mode: NON_HA
```

The yaml file describes the list of one or more services that you want to add to your existing project. In the example above, one MariaDB 10.4 service in the [single container mode](#single-container) with default [auto scaling](/mariadb/how-to/scale) configuration will be added to your project. Hostname of the new service will be set to `mariadb1`.

The content of the `services:` section of `import.yml` is identical to the [project description file](#create-a-project-description-file). The `import.yml` never contains the `project:` section because the project already exists.

When you have your `import.yml` ready, use the `zcli project service-import` command to add one or more services to your existing Zerops project.

```sh
Usage:
  zcli project service-import importYamlPath [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help               the project service import command.
      --projectId string   If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
```

zCLI commands are interactive, when you press enter after `zcli project service-import importYamlPath`, you will be given a list of your projects to choose from.

Maximum size of the `import.yml` file is 100 kB.
