apps/docs/content/mariadb/how-to/manage.mdx, before:

---
title: Manage MariaDB users and databases in Zerops
---

## Default database and user

Zerops creates a default database and a default user automatically when a new MariaDB service is [created](/mariadb/how-to/create).

#### Database

The default database name is identical to the service hostname. The default encoding is set to `utf8mb4`.

#### DB user

Default user name is identical to the service hostname. Default user password is generated randomly. You will find the password in [Zerops GUI](#copy-access-details-from-zerops-gui) or you can use the [environment variable](/mariadb/how-to/connect#use-mariadb-environment-variables).

:::info
Zerops creates a second DB user: `zps` for maintenance reasons with full privileges. Do not delete, change the password or remove privileges from this user, it will disrupt Zerops ability to maintain the database cluster.
:::

## How to install Adminer to Zerops

[Adminer ↗](https://www.adminer.org) is a open source full-featured database management tool written in PHP.

### Single-click installation

To install Adminer into your project, open your project in Zerops GUI and select **import services** in the left menu.

Copy the following yaml file into the text area and start the import:

```yml
services:
  - # Service will be accessible through zCLI VPN under: http://adminer
    hostname: adminer
    # Type and version of service used.
    type: php-apache@8.0+2.4
    # Whether the service will be run on one or multiple containers.
    # Since this is a utility service, using a single container is fine.
    minContainers: 1
    maxContainers: 1
    # Folder name used as the root of the publicly accessible web server content.
    documentRoot: public
    # Link to Zerops repository that contains Adminer code with Zerops build and deploy instructions.
    buildFromGit: https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-adminer@main
```

When the import is finished, Adminer will be running as a PHP service in your project.

## How to access Adminer

### Use Zerops VPN

By default Adminer service is private and is accessible from your local workstation over VPN.

You can securely connect to MariaDB from your local workspace via Zerops VPN. Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start a VPN connection to the selected Zerops project, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Start the Zerops VPN](/references/vpn)
3. Type `http://adminer` into your browser

:::caution
Do not use https when connecting to Adminer via VPN.
:::

### Enable public access

You can enable the public access to the Adminer service via the [Zerops subdomain].

Or you can configure the [Public routing] on the Adminer service to make it accessible on your own domain.

## How to install phpMyAdmin to Zerops

[phpMyAdmin ↗](https://www.phpmyadmin.net) is a free software tool written in PHP, intended to handle the administration of MariaDB over the Web.

### Single-click installation

To install phpMyAdmin into your project, open your project in Zerops GUI and select **import services** in the left menu.

Copy the following yaml file into the text area and start the import:

```yml
services:
  - # Service will be accessible through zCLI VPN under: http://phpmyadmin
    hostname: phpmyadmin
    # Type and version of service used.
    type: php-apache@8.1+2.4
    # Whether the service will be run on one or multiple containers.
    # Since this is a utility service, using a single container is fine.
    minContainers: 1
    maxContainers: 1
    # Folder name used as the root of the publicly accessible web server content.
    documentRoot: public
    # Link to Zerops repository that contains Adminer code with Zerops build and deploy instructions.
    buildFromGit: https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-phpmyadmin@main
```

When the import is finished, phpMyAdmin will be running as a PHP service in your project.

## How to access phpMyAdmin

### Use Zerops VPN

By default phpMyAdmin service is private and is accessible from your local workstation over VPN.

You can securely connect to MariaDB from your local workspace via Zerops VPN. Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start a VPN connection to the selected Zerops project, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Start the Zerops VPN](/references/vpn)
3. Type `http://phpmyadmin` into your browser

:::caution
Do not use https when connecting to phpMyAdmin via VPN.
:::

### Enable public access

You can enable the public access to the phpMyAdmin service via the [Zerops subdomain].

Or you can configure the [Public routing] on the phpMyAdmin service to make it accessible on your own domain.

## How to use a database management tool on your workstation

Do you already use a database management tool that supports MariaDB on your workstation? Connect it securely to MariaDB from your local workspace via Zerops VPN.

Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start the VPN connection, read [how to connect to MariaDB remotely](/mariadb/how-to/connect#connect-to-mariadb-in-zerops-remotely).

:::caution
Do not use SSL/TLS protocols when connecting to MariaDB over VPN. Zerops MariaDB is not configured to support these protocols. The security is assured by the VPN.
:::

## How to use mysql CLI on your workstation

If you use the [mysql ↗](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.1/en/mysql.html) command-line client to manage your MariaDB on your local workspace, you can connect it securely to MariaDB via Zerops VPN.

Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start the VPN connection, read [how to connect to MariaDB remotely](/mariadb/how-to/connect#connect-to-mariadb-in-zerops-remotely).

Once the VPN session is established, you have the secured connection to the project's private network in Zerops. You can access all project services locally by using their hostname. The only difference is that no [environment variables](/mariadb/how-to/connect#connect-to-mariadb-in-zerops-remotely) are available when connected through VPN. To connect to MariaDB in Zerops you have to copy the [access details](/mariadb/how-to/connect#connect-to-mariadb-in-zerops-remotely) manually from Zerops GUI.

Use `mysql` command to connect to MariaDB in Zerops:

```sh
mysql -h [hostname] -u [user] -p [password] [database_name]
```

:::caution
Do not use SSL/TLS protocols when connecting to MariaDB over VPN. Zerops MariaDB is not configured to support these protocols. The security is assured by the VPN.
:::

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/mariadb/how-to/manage.mdx, after:

---
title: Manage MariaDB users and databases in Zerops
description: Learn how you can manage users and database of your mariadb service on Zerops.
---

## Default database and user

Zerops creates a default database and a default user automatically when a new MariaDB service is [created](/mariadb/how-to/create).

#### Database

The default database name is identical to the service hostname. The default encoding is set to `utf8mb4`.

#### DB user

Default user name is identical to the service hostname. Default user password is generated randomly. You will find the password in [Zerops GUI](#copy-access-details-from-zerops-gui) or you can use the [environment variable](/mariadb/how-to/connect#use-mariadb-environment-variables).

:::info
Zerops creates a second DB user: `zps` for maintenance reasons with full privileges. Do not delete, change the password or remove privileges from this user, it will disrupt Zerops ability to maintain the database cluster.
:::

## How to install Adminer to Zerops

[Adminer ↗](https://www.adminer.org) is a open source full-featured database management tool written in PHP.

### Single-click installation

To install Adminer into your project, open your project in Zerops GUI and select **import services** in the left menu.

Copy the following yaml file into the text area and start the import:

```yml
services:
  - # Service will be accessible through zCLI VPN under: http://adminer
    hostname: adminer
    # Type and version of service used.
    type: php-apache@8.0+2.4
    # Whether the service will be run on one or multiple containers.
    # Since this is a utility service, using a single container is fine.
    minContainers: 1
    maxContainers: 1
    # Folder name used as the root of the publicly accessible web server content.
    documentRoot: public
    # Link to Zerops repository that contains Adminer code with Zerops build and deploy instructions.
    buildFromGit: https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-adminer@main
```

When the import is finished, Adminer will be running as a PHP service in your project.

## How to access Adminer

### Use Zerops VPN

By default Adminer service is private and is accessible from your local workstation over VPN.

You can securely connect to MariaDB from your local workspace via Zerops VPN. Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start a VPN connection to the selected Zerops project, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Start the Zerops VPN](/references/vpn)
3. Type `http://adminer` into your browser

:::caution
Do not use https when connecting to Adminer via VPN.
:::

### Enable public access

You can enable the public access to the Adminer service via the [Zerops subdomain].

Or you can configure the [Public routing] on the Adminer service to make it accessible on your own domain.

## How to install phpMyAdmin to Zerops

[phpMyAdmin ↗](https://www.phpmyadmin.net) is a free software tool written in PHP, intended to handle the administration of MariaDB over the Web.

### Single-click installation

To install phpMyAdmin into your project, open your project in Zerops GUI and select **import services** in the left menu.

Copy the following yaml file into the text area and start the import:

```yml
services:
  - # Service will be accessible through zCLI VPN under: http://phpmyadmin
    hostname: phpmyadmin
    # Type and version of service used.
    type: php-apache@8.1+2.4
    # Whether the service will be run on one or multiple containers.
    # Since this is a utility service, using a single container is fine.
    minContainers: 1
    maxContainers: 1
    # Folder name used as the root of the publicly accessible web server content.
    documentRoot: public
    # Link to Zerops repository that contains Adminer code with Zerops build and deploy instructions.
    buildFromGit: https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-phpmyadmin@main
```

When the import is finished, phpMyAdmin will be running as a PHP service in your project.

## How to access phpMyAdmin

### Use Zerops VPN

By default phpMyAdmin service is private and is accessible from your local workstation over VPN.

You can securely connect to MariaDB from your local workspace via Zerops VPN. Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start a VPN connection to the selected Zerops project, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Start the Zerops VPN](/references/vpn)
3. Type `http://phpmyadmin` into your browser

:::caution
Do not use https when connecting to phpMyAdmin via VPN.
:::

### Enable public access

You can enable the public access to the phpMyAdmin service via the [Zerops subdomain].

Or you can configure the [Public routing] on the phpMyAdmin service to make it accessible on your own domain.

## How to use a database management tool on your workstation

Do you already use a database management tool that supports MariaDB on your workstation? Connect it securely to MariaDB from your local workspace via Zerops VPN.

Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start the VPN connection, read [how to connect to MariaDB remotely](/mariadb/how-to/connect#connect-to-mariadb-in-zerops-remotely).

:::caution
Do not use SSL/TLS protocols when connecting to MariaDB over VPN. Zerops MariaDB is not configured to support these protocols. The security is assured by the VPN.
:::

## How to use mysql CLI on your workstation

If you use the [mysql ↗](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.1/en/mysql.html) command-line client to manage your MariaDB on your local workspace, you can connect it securely to MariaDB via Zerops VPN.

Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start the VPN connection, read [how to connect to MariaDB remotely](/mariadb/how-to/connect#connect-to-mariadb-in-zerops-remotely).

Once the VPN session is established, you have the secured connection to the project's private network in Zerops. You can access all project services locally by using their hostname. The only difference is that no [environment variables](/mariadb/how-to/connect#connect-to-mariadb-in-zerops-remotely) are available when connected through VPN. To connect to MariaDB in Zerops you have to copy the [access details](/mariadb/how-to/connect#connect-to-mariadb-in-zerops-remotely) manually from Zerops GUI.

Use `mysql` command to connect to MariaDB in Zerops:

```sh
mysql -h [hostname] -u [user] -p [password] [database_name]
```

:::caution
Do not use SSL/TLS protocols when connecting to MariaDB over VPN. Zerops MariaDB is not configured to support these protocols. The security is assured by the VPN.
:::
