apps/docs/content/frameworks/laravel/build-deployments.mdx, before:

---
title: Build & Deployments
description: Learn How to Build and Run Your Laravel Application on Zerops
---

Deploying your application to zerops requires a `zerops.yml` file at the root of your project. This file tells Zerops how to install, build, run and deploy your application.

## Build & Runtime

You can define commands and settings for both your build and runtime environments in your `zerops.yml` file.

### Build Environment

The build environment is the environment where your application is built. It is the environment where your `deployFiles` are deployed and then `buildCommands` are executed on your specified `base` and `os`.

```yml
zerops:
  - setup: app
    build:
      base:
        - php@8.4
      os: alpine
      buildCommands:
        - composer install --ignore-platform-reqs
      deployFiles: ./
      cache:
        - vendor
        - composer.lock
    deploy:
      readinessCheck:
        httpGet:
          port: 80
          path: /up
```

### Runtime Environment

The runtime environment is the environment where your application is running. It is the environment where your built files are deployed.

```yml
    run:
      base: php-nginx@8.4
      os: alpine
      siteConfigPath: site.conf.tmpl
      envVariables:
        APP_URL: ${zeropsSubdomain}
        DB_CONNECTION: pgsql
        DB_DATABASE: db
        DB_HOST: db
        DB_USERNAME: ${db_user}
        DB_PASSWORD: ${db_password}
        DB_PORT: 5432
      initCommands:
        - php artisan view:cache
        - php artisan config:cache
        - php artisan route:cache
        - sudo -E -u zerops -- zsc execOnce ${appVersionId} -- php artisan migrate --force
        - php artisan optimize
      healthCheck:
        httpGet:
          port: 80
          path: /up
```

The `zsc execOnce` is a command by Zerops Setup Control (ZSC) CLI tool. This comes pre-installed in all runtime and build containers.
It provides essential container management capabilities, including dynamic scaling, technology stack
modifications, and synchronized command execution. It ensures single-execution of critical commands (such as database migrations) across high-availability
setups.


## How to deploy your application?

You can either deploy your application by pushing to the repository or by using the Zerops CLI.

### Deploying with Github or Gitlab

You can deploy your changes by pushing to the repository. This will trigger a push to zerops and then build pipeline will be triggered and then later a deployment.

You can connect your repository to your Zerops service by using the Zerops CLI or by using the Zerops dashboard.

- [Github integration](/references/github-integration)
- [Gitlab integration](/references/gitlab-integration)

### Deploying with Zerops CLI

When you have a `zerops.yml` file, you can deploy your codebase to Zerops by running `zcli push`. This will trigger the build pipeline followed by deployment. 
There are many other features available in the Zerops CLI - you can read more about them at [references/cli](/references/cli).

Any changes to your `zerops.yml` file require redeployment of your application, either by using `zcli push` or by pushing to your connected repository.

:::info
If you are curious about how to ssh into your service, you can read more about it [here](/references/ssh).
:::

Commit message:

fix deployment secton and remove unnecessary lines from cron page

apps/docs/content/frameworks/laravel/build-deployments.mdx, after:

---
title: Build & Deployments
description: Learn How to Build and Run Your Laravel Application on Zerops
---

Deploying your application to zerops requires a `zerops.yml` file at the root of your project. This file tells Zerops how to install, build, run and deploy your application.

## Build & Runtime

You can define commands and settings for both your build and runtime environments in your `zerops.yml` file.

### Build Environment

The build environment is the environment where your application is built. It is the environment where your `deployFiles` are deployed and then `buildCommands` are executed on your specified `base` and `os`.

```yml
zerops:
  - setup: app
    build:
      base:
        - php@8.4
      os: alpine
      buildCommands:
        - composer install --ignore-platform-reqs
      deployFiles: ./
      cache:
        - vendor
        - composer.lock
    deploy:
      readinessCheck:
        httpGet:
          port: 80
          path: /up
```

### Runtime Environment

The runtime environment is the environment where your application is running. It is the environment where your built files are deployed.

```yml
    run:
      base: php-nginx@8.4
      os: alpine
      siteConfigPath: site.conf.tmpl
      envVariables:
        APP_URL: ${zeropsSubdomain}
        DB_CONNECTION: pgsql
        DB_DATABASE: db
        DB_HOST: db
        DB_USERNAME: ${db_user}
        DB_PASSWORD: ${db_password}
        DB_PORT: 5432
      initCommands:
        - php artisan view:cache
        - php artisan config:cache
        - php artisan route:cache
        - sudo -E -u zerops -- zsc execOnce ${appVersionId} -- php artisan migrate --force
        - php artisan optimize
      healthCheck:
        httpGet:
          port: 80
          path: /up
```

The `zsc execOnce` is a command by Zerops Setup Control (ZSC) CLI tool. This comes pre-installed in all runtime and build containers.
It provides essential container management capabilities, including dynamic scaling, technology stack
modifications, and synchronized command execution. It ensures single-execution of critical commands (such as database migrations) across high-availability
setups.


## How to deploy your application?

To deploy your application, you can either push to the repository or use the Zerops CLI.

### Deploying from GitHub or GitLab

To deploy your application from GitHub or GitLab, you need to connect your repository to your Zerops service from the service's Pipeline & CI/CD settings.

- [Github integration](/references/github-integration)
- [Gitlab integration](/references/gitlab-integration)

The deployment can be triggered either by:

- **Pushing to a specified branch**: If you push to a branch, it will trigger a deployment.
- **Using a tag**: If you commit with the configured tag, it will trigger a deployment.


### Deploying with Zerops CLI

When you have a `zerops.yml` file, you can deploy your codebase to Zerops by running `zcli push`. This will trigger the build pipeline followed by deployment. 
There are many other features available in the Zerops CLI - you can read more about them at [references/cli](/references/cli).

Any changes to your `zerops.yml` file require redeployment of your application, either by using `zcli push` or by pushing to your connected repository.

:::info
If you are curious about how to ssh into your service, you can read more about it [here](/references/ssh).
:::
