apps/docs/content/keydb/how-to/manage.mdx, before:

---
title: Manage KeyDB database in Zerops
---

## How to use a database management tool on your workstation

Do you already use a database management tool that supports KeyDB on your workstation? Connect it securely to KeyDB from your local workspace via Zerops VPN.

Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start the VPN connection, read [how to connect to KeyDB remotely](/keydb/how-to/connect#connect-to-keydb-in-zerops-remotely).

:::caution
Do not use SSL/TLS protocols when connecting to KeyDB over VPN. Zerops KeyDB is not configured to support these protocols. The security is assured by the VPN.
:::

## How to use KeyDB Client CLI on your workstation

If you use the [keydb-cli ↗](https://docs.keydb.dev/docs/keydbcli/) command-line client to manage your KeyDB on your local workspace, you can connect it securely to KeyDB via Zerops VPN.

Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start the VPN connection, read [how to connect to KeyDB remotely](/keydb/how-to/connect#connect-to-keydb-in-zerops-remotely).

Once the VPN session is established, you have the secured connection to the project's private network in Zerops. You can access all project services locally by using their hostname. The only difference is that no [environment variables](/keydb/how-to/connect#connect-to-keydb-in-zerops-remotely) are available when connected through VPN. To connect to KeyDB in Zerops you have to copy the [access details](/keydb/how-to/connect#connect-to-keydb-in-zerops-remotely) manually from Zerops GUI.

Use `keydb-cli` command to connect to KeyDB in Zerops:

```sh
keydb-cli -h [hostname]
```

:::caution
Do not use SSL/TLS protocols when connecting to KeyDB over VPN. Zerops KeyDB is not configured to support these protocols. The security is assured by the VPN.
:::

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/keydb/how-to/manage.mdx, after:

---
title: Manage KeyDB database on Zerops
description: Learn how you can manage your keydb database on Zerops
---

## How to use a database management tool on your workstation

Do you already use a database management tool that supports KeyDB on your workstation? Connect it securely to KeyDB from your local workspace via Zerops VPN.

Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start the VPN connection, read [how to connect to KeyDB remotely](/keydb/how-to/connect#connect-to-keydb-in-zerops-remotely).

:::caution
Do not use SSL/TLS protocols when connecting to KeyDB over VPN. Zerops KeyDB is not configured to support these protocols. The security is assured by the VPN.
:::

## How to use KeyDB Client CLI on your workstation

If you use the [keydb-cli ↗](https://docs.keydb.dev/docs/keydbcli/) command-line client to manage your KeyDB on your local workspace, you can connect it securely to KeyDB via Zerops VPN.

Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start the VPN connection, read [how to connect to KeyDB remotely](/keydb/how-to/connect#connect-to-keydb-in-zerops-remotely).

Once the VPN session is established, you have the secured connection to the project's private network in Zerops. You can access all project services locally by using their hostname. The only difference is that no [environment variables](/keydb/how-to/connect#connect-to-keydb-in-zerops-remotely) are available when connected through VPN. To connect to KeyDB in Zerops you have to copy the [access details](/keydb/how-to/connect#connect-to-keydb-in-zerops-remotely) manually from Zerops GUI.

Use `keydb-cli` command to connect to KeyDB in Zerops:

```sh
keydb-cli -h [hostname]
```

:::caution
Do not use SSL/TLS protocols when connecting to KeyDB over VPN. Zerops KeyDB is not configured to support these protocols. The security is assured by the VPN.
:::
