apps/docs/content/nginx/tutorial/runtime-sql.mdx, before:

---
title: Nginx + PostgreSQL tutorial
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

As said, there is no need for coding yet, we have created a [Github repository ↗](https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-php), a **_recipe_**, containing a PostgreSQL service with a simple Nginx application. The repo will be used as a source from which the app will be built.

:::tip
Follow the steps below and when everything is working as expected, fork the repo, try making various changes or be bold and connect your own.
:::

:::note
In the detail of each step, you can find a link with more information about the topic.
:::

1. Log in/sign up to [Zerops GUI ↗](https://app.zerops.io)

<details>
  <summary>2. Create a project.</summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about <a href="/features/infrastructure#project">projects</a> in
    Zerops. See how to{' '}
    <a href="/nginx/how-to/create#create-a-project-description-file">import</a>{' '}
    a whole project into Zerops.
  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    3. In the left menu, click on <b>Import services</b>, copy & paste the
    contents of the `import-services.yml` config file from the recipe
    repository of your choice. Then click on <b>Import service</b>.
  </summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about{' '}
    <a href="/features/infrastructure#services--containers">services</a> in
    Zerops and how to{' '}
    <a href="/nginx/how-to/create#add-nginx-service-to-an-existing-project">
      import a service
    </a>{' '}
    to an existing project.
  </p>
  <p>
    The yaml file includes a `buildFromGit` directive, which ensures
    a one-time build from Git repository source. See how to connect a{' '}
    <a href="/references/github-integration">Github</a> or{' '}
    <a href="/references/github-integration">Gitlab</a> repository to be able to
    trigger automatic builds & deploys.
  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>4. Several pipelines are created, one for project creation and the rest for the activation of the services. Wait for all to finish.</summary>
  <p>
  Learn more about how the pipelines can be <a href="/nginx/how-to/trigger-pipeline">triggered</a> and about <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-process">build</a> and <a href="/nginx/how-to/deploy-process">deploy</a> processes of a Nginx application in Zerops.

Learn more about how to access <a href="/nginx/how-to/logs#build-log">build log</a> of your Nginx static service in Zerops.

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    5. In the service detail, open the <b>Public access & internal ports</b>{' '}
    section, and <b>Enable Zerops Subdomain</b>.
  </summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about how to <a href="/nginx/how-to/access">access</a> your Nginx
    static service in Zerops.
  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>6. Once the pipeline has finished, click on the activated <i>subdomain</i> URL. You should see a simple page with <br/><br/>`Entry added successfully with random data: f47ac10b-58cc-0372-8567-0e02b2c3d479. Total count: 1`</summary>
  <p>
  Congratulations! You have created your first application in Zerops, and we hope to see your own projects soon.

For now, check out other features, such as <a href="/nginx/how-to/env-variables">environment variables</a>, <a href="/nginx/how-to/logs#runtime-log">runtime log</a> and <a href="/nginx/how-to/scaling">scaling</a>.

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    7. One of the services is `adminer`, a database management tool.
    See how to{' '}
    <a href="/postgresql/how-to/manage#how-to-access-adminer">access it</a>.
  </summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about how to{' '}
    <a href="/postgresql/how-to/manage#how-to-use-psql-cli-on-your-workstation">
      use `psql`
    </a>{' '}
    command-line tool instead or how to{' '}
    <a href="/postgresql/how-to/export-import-data">import and export data</a>{' '}
    from your database.
  </p>
</details>

8. Feel free to make any changes to your project, fork the repo or connect your own. Also see other <a href="https://github.com/zeropsio?q=nginx&type=all&language=&sort=">Nginx</a> and <a href="https://github.com/zeropsio?q=postgresql&type=all&language=&sort=">PostgreSQL</a> recipes on our Github page.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

:::tip
Have you got any additional question? Join our **[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54)** community to get help from our team and other members.
:::

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/nginx/tutorial/runtime-sql.mdx, after:

---
title: Nginx Static + PostgreSQL tutorial
description: Learn how you can work with nginx static & postgres database on Zerops.
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

As said, there is no need for coding yet, we have created a [Github repository ↗](https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-onboarding-php), a **_recipe_**, containing a PostgreSQL service with a simple Nginx application. The repo will be used as a source from which the app will be built.

:::tip
Follow the steps below and when everything is working as expected, fork the repo, try making various changes or be bold and connect your own.
:::

:::note
In the detail of each step, you can find a link with more information about the topic.
:::

1. Log in/sign up to [Zerops GUI ↗](https://app.zerops.io)

<details>
  <summary>2. Create a project.</summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about <a href="/features/infrastructure#project">projects</a> in
    Zerops. See how to{' '}
    <a href="/nginx/how-to/create#create-a-project-description-file">import</a>{' '}
    a whole project into Zerops.
  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    3. In the left menu, click on <b>Import services</b>, copy & paste the
    contents of the `import-services.yml` config file from the recipe
    repository of your choice. Then click on <b>Import service</b>.
  </summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about{' '}
    <a href="/features/infrastructure#services--containers">services</a> in
    Zerops and how to{' '}
    <a href="/nginx/how-to/create#add-nginx-service-to-an-existing-project">
      import a service
    </a>{' '}
    to an existing project.
  </p>
  <p>
    The yaml file includes a `buildFromGit` directive, which ensures
    a one-time build from Git repository source. See how to connect a{' '}
    <a href="/references/github-integration">Github</a> or{' '}
    <a href="/references/github-integration">Gitlab</a> repository to be able to
    trigger automatic builds & deploys.
  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>4. Several pipelines are created, one for project creation and the rest for the activation of the services. Wait for all to finish.</summary>
  <p>
  Learn more about how the pipelines can be <a href="/nginx/how-to/trigger-pipeline">triggered</a> and about <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-process">build</a> and <a href="/nginx/how-to/deploy-process">deploy</a> processes of a Nginx application in Zerops.

Learn more about how to access <a href="/nginx/how-to/logs#build-log">build log</a> of your Nginx static service in Zerops.

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    5. In the service detail, open the <b>Public access & internal ports</b>{' '}
    section, and <b>Enable Zerops Subdomain</b>.
  </summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about how to <a href="/nginx/how-to/access">access</a> your Nginx
    static service in Zerops.
  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>6. Once the pipeline has finished, click on the activated <i>subdomain</i> URL. You should see a simple page with <br/><br/>`Entry added successfully with random data: f47ac10b-58cc-0372-8567-0e02b2c3d479. Total count: 1`</summary>
  <p>
  Congratulations! You have created your first application in Zerops, and we hope to see your own projects soon.

For now, check out other features, such as <a href="/nginx/how-to/env-variables">environment variables</a>, <a href="/nginx/how-to/logs#runtime-log">runtime log</a> and <a href="/nginx/how-to/scaling">scaling</a>.

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    7. One of the services is `adminer`, a database management tool.
    See how to{' '}
    <a href="/postgresql/how-to/manage#how-to-access-adminer">access it</a>.
  </summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about how to{' '}
    <a href="/postgresql/how-to/manage#how-to-use-psql-cli-on-your-workstation">
      use `psql`
    </a>{' '}
    command-line tool instead or how to{' '}
    <a href="/postgresql/how-to/export-import-data">import and export data</a>{' '}
    from your database.
  </p>
</details>

8. Feel free to make any changes to your project, fork the repo or connect your own. Also see other <a href="https://github.com/zeropsio?q=nginx&type=all&language=&sort=">Nginx</a> and <a href="https://github.com/zeropsio?q=postgresql&type=all&language=&sort=">PostgreSQL</a> recipes on our Github page.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

:::tip
Have you got any additional question? Join our **[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54)** community to get help from our team and other members.
:::
