apps/docs/content/nginx/tutorial/step-by-step.mdx, before:

---
title: Step-by-step tutorial
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

As said, there is no need for coding yet, we have created a [Github repository ↗](https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-php-hello-world), a **_recipe_**, containing the most simple Nginx web application. The repo will be used as a source from which the app will be built.

:::tip
Follow the steps below and when everything is working as expected, fork the repo, try making various changes or be bold and connect your own.
:::

:::note
In the detail of each step, you can find a link with more information about the topic.
:::

1. Log in/sign up to [Zerops GUI ↗](https://app.zerops.io)

<details>
  <summary>2. Create a project.</summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about <a href="/features/infrastructure#project">projects</a> in
    Zerops. See how to{' '}
    <a href="/nginx/how-to/create#create-a-project-description-file">import</a>{' '}
    a whole project into Zerops.
  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    3. In the left menu, click on <b>Import services</b>, copy & paste the
    contents of this{' '}
    <a href="https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-php-hello-world/blob/main/import-service/description.yml">
      yaml file
    </a>{' '}
    and click on <b>Import service</b>.
  </summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about{' '}
    <a href="/features/infrastructure#services--containers">services</a> in
    Zerops and how to{' '}
    <a href="/nginx/how-to/create#add-nginx-service-to-an-existing-project">
      import a service
    </a>{' '}
    to an existing project.
  </p>
  <p>
    The yaml file includes a `buildFromGit` directive, which ensures
    a one-time build from Git repository source. See how to connect a{' '}
    <a href="/references/github-integration">Github</a> or{' '}
    <a href="/references/github-integration">Gitlab</a> repository to be able to
    trigger automatic builds & deploys.
  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>4. Two pipelines are created, one for project creation and one for the service activation. Wait for both to finish.</summary>
  <p>
  Learn more about how the pipelines can be <a href="/nginx/how-to/trigger-pipeline">triggered</a> and about <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-process">build</a> and <a href="/nginx/how-to/deploy-process">deploy</a> processes of a Nginx application in Zerops.

Learn more about how to access <a href="/nginx/how-to/logs#build-log">build log</a> of your Nginx static service in Zerops.

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    5. In the service detail, open the <b>Public access & internal ports</b>{' '}
    section, and <b>Enable Zerops Subdomain</b>.
  </summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about how to <a href="/nginx/how-to/access">access</a> your Nginx
    static service in Zerops.
  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>6. Once the pipeline has finished, click on the activated <i>subdomain</i> URL:<br/><br/> You should see a simple page with `Hello World!` printed.</summary>
  <p>
  Congratulations! You have created your first application in Zerops, and we hope to see your own projects soon.

For now, check out other features, such as <a href="/nginx/how-to/env-variables">environment variables</a>, <a href="/nginx/how-to/logs#runtime-log">runtime log</a> and <a href="/nginx/how-to/scaling">scaling</a>.

  </p>
</details>

7. Feel free to make any changes to your project, fork the repo or connect your own. Also see other <a href="https://github.com/zeropsio?q=nginx&type=all&language=&sort=">Nginx recipes</a> on our Github page.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

:::tip
Have you got any additional question? Join our **[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54)** community to get help from our team and other members.
:::

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/nginx/tutorial/step-by-step.mdx, after:

---
title: Step-by-step tutorial
description: Go through the step by step tutorial for nginx on Zerops.
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

As said, there is no need for coding yet, we have created a [Github repository ↗](https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-php-hello-world), a **_recipe_**, containing the most simple Nginx web application. The repo will be used as a source from which the app will be built.

:::tip
Follow the steps below and when everything is working as expected, fork the repo, try making various changes or be bold and connect your own.
:::

:::note
In the detail of each step, you can find a link with more information about the topic.
:::

1. Log in/sign up to [Zerops GUI ↗](https://app.zerops.io)

<details>
  <summary>2. Create a project.</summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about <a href="/features/infrastructure#project">projects</a> in
    Zerops. See how to{' '}
    <a href="/nginx/how-to/create#create-a-project-description-file">import</a>{' '}
    a whole project into Zerops.
  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    3. In the left menu, click on <b>Import services</b>, copy & paste the
    contents of this{' '}
    <a href="https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-php-hello-world/blob/main/import-service/description.yml">
      yaml file
    </a>{' '}
    and click on <b>Import service</b>.
  </summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about{' '}
    <a href="/features/infrastructure#services--containers">services</a> in
    Zerops and how to{' '}
    <a href="/nginx/how-to/create#add-nginx-service-to-an-existing-project">
      import a service
    </a>{' '}
    to an existing project.
  </p>
  <p>
    The yaml file includes a `buildFromGit` directive, which ensures
    a one-time build from Git repository source. See how to connect a{' '}
    <a href="/references/github-integration">Github</a> or{' '}
    <a href="/references/github-integration">Gitlab</a> repository to be able to
    trigger automatic builds & deploys.
  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>4. Two pipelines are created, one for project creation and one for the service activation. Wait for both to finish.</summary>
  <p>
  Learn more about how the pipelines can be <a href="/nginx/how-to/trigger-pipeline">triggered</a> and about <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-process">build</a> and <a href="/nginx/how-to/deploy-process">deploy</a> processes of a Nginx application in Zerops.

Learn more about how to access <a href="/nginx/how-to/logs#build-log">build log</a> of your Nginx static service in Zerops.

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    5. In the service detail, open the <b>Public access & internal ports</b>{' '}
    section, and <b>Enable Zerops Subdomain</b>.
  </summary>
  <p>
    Learn more about how to <a href="/nginx/how-to/access">access</a> your Nginx
    static service in Zerops.
  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>6. Once the pipeline has finished, click on the activated <i>subdomain</i> URL:<br/><br/> You should see a simple page with `Hello World!` printed.</summary>
  <p>
  Congratulations! You have created your first application in Zerops, and we hope to see your own projects soon.

For now, check out other features, such as <a href="/nginx/how-to/env-variables">environment variables</a>, <a href="/nginx/how-to/logs#runtime-log">runtime log</a> and <a href="/nginx/how-to/scaling">scaling</a>.

  </p>
</details>

7. Feel free to make any changes to your project, fork the repo or connect your own. Also see other <a href="https://github.com/zeropsio?q=nginx&type=all&language=&sort=">Nginx recipes</a> on our Github page.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

:::tip
Have you got any additional question? Join our **[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54)** community to get help from our team and other members.
:::
