apps/docs/content/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting started
description:
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';

Welcome to Zerops! :star:

The best way to dive into Zerops is to try it yourself. Pick your favourite technology from the list below and follow the tutorials there:

### Runtimes, web servers & Linux containers

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/nodejs/getting-started',
      label: 'Node.js',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['nodejs'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/go/getting-started',
      label: 'Go',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['go'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/php/getting-started',
      label: 'PHP',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['php'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/python/getting-started',
      label: 'Python',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['python'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/dotnet/getting-started',
      label: '.NET',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['dotnet'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/rust/getting-started',
      label: 'Rust',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['rust'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

### Databases, search engines & message brokers

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/getting-started',
      label: 'PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['postgresql'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/mariadb/getting-started',
      label: 'MariaDB (MySQL)',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['mariadb'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/keydb/getting-started',
      label: 'KeyDB (Redis)',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['keydb'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

chore: add description to getting started

apps/docs/content/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting started
description: Our getting started guide with organized sections for a newbie to Zerops. 
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';

Welcome to Zerops! :star:

The best way to dive into Zerops is to try it yourself. Pick your favourite technology from the list below and follow the tutorials there:

### Runtimes, web servers & Linux containers

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/nodejs/getting-started',
      label: 'Node.js',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['nodejs'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/go/getting-started',
      label: 'Go',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['go'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/php/getting-started',
      label: 'PHP',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['php'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/python/getting-started',
      label: 'Python',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['python'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/dotnet/getting-started',
      label: '.NET',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['dotnet'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/rust/getting-started',
      label: 'Rust',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['rust'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

### Databases, search engines & message brokers

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/getting-started',
      label: 'PostgreSQL',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['postgresql'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/mariadb/getting-started',
      label: 'MariaDB (MySQL)',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['mariadb'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/keydb/getting-started',
      label: 'KeyDB (Redis)',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['keydb'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>
