apps/docs/content/java/tutorial/quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: No-Fuss speedy trial
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

As said, there is no need for coding yet, we have created a [Github repository ↗](https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-java-hello-world), a **_recipe_**, containing the most simple Java web application. The repo will be used as a source from which the app will be built.

1. Log in/sign up to [Zerops GUI ↗](https://app.zerops.io)
2. In the **Projects** box click on **Import a project** and paste in the following yml config ([source ↗](https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-java-hello-world/blob/main/import-project/description.yml)):

```yml
project:
  name: my-first-project
services:
  - hostname: helloworld
    type: java@latest
    minContainers: 1
    maxContainers: 3
    buildFromGit: https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-java-hello-world@main
    enableSubdomainAccess: true
```

3. Click on **Import project** and wait until all pipelines have finished.

**That's it, your application is now up and running! :star: Let's check it works:**

1. A _subdomain_ should have been enabled and visible in the project's **IP addressed & Public Routing Overview** box. Its format should look similar to this `https://helloworld-24-8080.prg1.zerops.app`.
2. Click or the `subdomain` URL to open it in a browser and you should see

```
Hello, World!
```

:::tip
Do you have any questions? Check the step-by-step tutorial, browse the documentation and join our **[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54)** community to get help from our team and other members.
:::

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/java/tutorial/quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: No-Fuss speedy trial
description: Get started with Java & Zerops as fast as possible.
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

As said, there is no need for coding yet, we have created a [Github repository ↗](https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-java-hello-world), a **_recipe_**, containing the most simple Java web application. The repo will be used as a source from which the app will be built.

1. Log in/sign up to [Zerops GUI ↗](https://app.zerops.io)
2. In the **Projects** box click on **Import a project** and paste in the following yml config ([source ↗](https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-java-hello-world/blob/main/import-project/description.yml)):

```yml
project:
  name: my-first-project
services:
  - hostname: helloworld
    type: java@latest
    minContainers: 1
    maxContainers: 3
    buildFromGit: https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-java-hello-world@main
    enableSubdomainAccess: true
```

3. Click on **Import project** and wait until all pipelines have finished.

**That's it, your application is now up and running! :star: Let's check it works:**

1. A _subdomain_ should have been enabled and visible in the project's **IP addressed & Public Routing Overview** box. Its format should look similar to this `https://helloworld-24-8080.prg1.zerops.app`.
2. Click or the `subdomain` URL to open it in a browser and you should see

```
Hello, World!
```

:::tip
Do you have any questions? Check the step-by-step tutorial, browse the documentation and join our **[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54)** community to get help from our team and other members.
:::
