apps/docs/content/references/cli.mdx, before:

# Using zCLI

import CustomCard from '/src/components/CustomCard';
import Image from '/src/components/Image';

## What is zCLI?

zCLI is the command-line tool for Zerops that allows users to manage services, simplify interactions, configure infrastructure directly from the terminal.

## Platforms

zCLI currently supports:

- Linux (x86 & x64)
- macOS (x86-64 & ARM64)
- Windows (x64)

## Get started

To get started, you may install **zCLI** globally using [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com) or [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) package manager:

```sh
npm i -g @zerops/zcli
```

```sh
yarn global add @zerops/zcli
```

<CustomCard emoji="🚀" title="Do you want to manually download the zCli binary?">
  To download the zCLI directly, get the [latest
  ↗](https://github.com/zeropsio/zcli/releases) release from GitHub.
</CustomCard>

### Windows

```powershell
irm https://zerops.io/zcli/install.ps1 | iex
```

zCLI will be installed inside `C:\Program Files\` or `C:\Program Files (x86)\`

### Linux/MacOS

```sh
curl -L https://zerops.io/zcli/install.sh | sh
```

zCLI will be installed inside `/usr/bin` or `/usr/local/bin`.

### NixOS

:::note
Make sure `nix-command` and flakes are enabled, if not. You can also use `--extra-experimental-features 'nix-command flakes'` with `nix`.
:::

Clone the [zCLI repository](https://github.com/zeropsio/zcli) and build the binary.

```
git clone https://github.com/zeropsio/zcli
```

```
cd zcli
```

```
nix develop
```

```
nix build
```

You can find zCLI binary inside `result/bin`.

## Personal access tokens

Personal tokens allow you to securely access Zerops directly. You can create one or more personal tokens and manage them in [Zerops GUI](https://app.zerops.io).

### Managing your access tokens

To create a new personal access token, go to [Access Tokens management](https://app.zerops.io/settings/token-management) and click "Generate a new access token".

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/screenshots/access-tokens-light.webp"
    darkImage="/img/screenshots/access-tokens-dark.webp"
    alt="personal access tokens"
    style={{ width: '100%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

You may delete an access token anytime.

### Using access tokens

You may use an access token to access Zerops using this command:

```sh
zcli login <token>
```

## References

[zCLI Commands and Usage](/references/cli/commands)

Commit message:

chore: fix title and description for seo reasons

apps/docs/content/references/cli.mdx, after:

---
title: Using zCLI
description: Learn how to install and use zCLI, the powerful command-line tool for interacting with Zerops. Explore zCLI commands, streamline service management, and simplify your workflow from your terminal.
---

import CustomCard from '/src/components/CustomCard';
import Image from '/src/components/Image';

## What is zCLI?

zCLI is the command-line tool for Zerops that allows users to manage services, simplify interactions, configure infrastructure directly from the terminal.

## Platforms

zCLI currently supports:

- Linux (x86 & x64)
- macOS (x86-64 & ARM64)
- Windows (x64)

## Get started

To get started, you may install **zCLI** globally using [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com) or [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) package manager:

```sh
npm i -g @zerops/zcli
```

```sh
yarn global add @zerops/zcli
```

<CustomCard emoji="🚀" title="Do you want to manually download the zCli binary?">
  To download the zCLI directly, get the [latest
  ↗](https://github.com/zeropsio/zcli/releases) release from GitHub.
</CustomCard>

### Windows

```powershell
irm https://zerops.io/zcli/install.ps1 | iex
```

zCLI will be installed inside `C:\Program Files\` or `C:\Program Files (x86)\`

### Linux/MacOS

```sh
curl -L https://zerops.io/zcli/install.sh | sh
```

zCLI will be installed inside `/usr/bin` or `/usr/local/bin`.

### NixOS

:::note
Make sure `nix-command` and flakes are enabled, if not. You can also use `--extra-experimental-features 'nix-command flakes'` with `nix`.
:::

Clone the [zCLI repository](https://github.com/zeropsio/zcli) and build the binary.

```
git clone https://github.com/zeropsio/zcli
```

```
cd zcli
```

```
nix develop
```

```
nix build
```

You can find zCLI binary inside `result/bin`.

## Personal access tokens

Personal tokens allow you to securely access Zerops directly. You can create one or more personal tokens and manage them in [Zerops GUI](https://app.zerops.io).

### Managing your access tokens

To create a new personal access token, go to [Access Tokens management](https://app.zerops.io/settings/token-management) and click "Generate a new access token".

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/screenshots/access-tokens-light.webp"
    darkImage="/img/screenshots/access-tokens-dark.webp"
    alt="personal access tokens"
    style={{ width: '100%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

You may delete an access token anytime.

### Using access tokens

You may use an access token to access Zerops using this command:

```sh
zcli login <token>
```

## References

[zCLI Commands and Usage](/references/cli/commands)
