apps/docs/content/references/import.mdx, before:

---
title: Import configuration
---

In this section you will find the fullest example of import yaml configuration file.

:::caution
Consider this a guideline only, not all keys are valid for all service types. If you want to know about the specifics of each technology, head to their **Create service** page in **How To** section.
:::

:::note

- `REQUIRED.` If a parent object is defined, the key-value pair is required to be filled. All other key-value pairs are optional.
  :::

```yml
# ==== Define a project to import ====
project:
  # REQUIRED. Name of your project
  name: project0
  # Project description
  description: "This project is an example only"
  # List of project tags for filtering
  tags:
    - test
    - dev
# ==== Define a list of services to import into the project ====
services:
  # REQUIRED. Name of your service
  - hostname: service1
    # REQUIRED. Choose from list of supported technologies and their versions
    type: nodejs@latest
    # HA or NON_HA mode
    mode: HA
    # Map of secret environment variables
    envSecrets:
      DATABASE_HOST: ${db_hostname}
      DATABASE_NAME: ${db_hostname}
    # Object storage size in GB
    objectStorageSize: 2
    # Choose object storage policy from a predefined list
    objectStoragePolicy: public-read-write
    # Define additional policy
    objectStorageRawPolicy:
    # One time build git repository
    buildFromGit: https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-nodejs-hello-world@main
    # true or false
    enableSubdomainAccess: true
    # The higher the sooner the service is created
    priority: 1
    # Vertical autoscaling configuration object
    verticalAutoscaling:
      minVCpu: 1
      maxVCpu: 5
      # Choose SHARED or DEDICATED
      cpuMode: DEDICATED
      minRam: 1
      maxRam: 32
      minDisk: 1
      maxDisk: 100
      startCpuCoreCount:
      minFreeCpuCores:
      minFreeCpuPercent:
      minFreeRamGB:
      minFreeRamPercent:
    # Minimum number of containers
    minContainers: 2
    # Maximum number of containers
    maxContainers: 3
    # List of shared storage services to connect to
    mount:
      - teststorage1
    # Full nginx config
    nginxConfig: |-
      server {
          listen 80 default_server;
          listen [::]:80 default_server;

          server_name _;
          root /var/www;

          location / {
              try_files $uri $uri/ /index.html;
          }

          access_log syslog:server=unix:/dev/log,facility=local1 default_short;
          error_log syslog:server=unix:/dev/log,facility=local1;
      }
    # Zerops.yml service name or full config file
    zeropsSetup:
      build:
        base: nodejs@latest
        buildCommands:
          - echo zerops.yml from import
          - yarn
          - yarn run build
        deployFiles: ./
        cache: node_modules
      run:
        initCommands:
          - |
            if ! zcli bucket s3 create $STORAGE_HOSTNAME $STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME --x-amz-acl=private; then
            echo "The bucket was not created, you have to do it manually!"
            fi
        start: yarn start
  # REQUIRED. Name of your other service
  - hostname: teststorage1
    type: shared-storage
    ...
```

## project

_REQUIRED, iff a whole project is imported_

Only one project can be defined.

### name

_string, REQUIRED_

The name of the new project. Duplicates are allowed.

### description

_string_

Description of the new project.

### tags

_list of strings_

One or more string tags. Tags do not have a functional meaning, they only provide better orientation in projects.

## services

_REQUIRED section_

At least one service is required.

### hostname

_string, REQUIRED_

The unique service identifier.
Limitations:

- duplicates in the same project forbidden
- maximum 25 characters, lowercase ASCII letters (a-z) or numbers (0-9) only

### type

_choose a [value](/references/importyml/type-list), REQUIRED_

Specifies the service type and version.

### mode

_choose a value_

- **HA / NON_HA** (default NON_HA)

Defines the operation mode of the service.

### envSecrets

_list of key-value pairs_

Environment variables that are blurred by default in Zerops GUI. Can be edited or deleted in Zerops GUI.

### objectStorageSize

_int_

Object storage size in GB.

### objectStoragePolicy

_choose a value_

- **private / public-read / public-objects-read / public-write / public-read-write / custom**

Select a predefined AWS S3 bucket access policy.

### objectStorageRawPolicy

_json_

Define your own AWS S3 bucket access policy. See [AWS docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/access-policy-language-overview.html) for details.

Use `{{ .BucketName }}` placeholder if you need to use bucket name in your custom policy rules.

### buildFromGit

_url string_

A URL of a Github or Gitlab repository used for a one-time build of your service.

### enableSubdomainAccess

_boolean_ (default false)

Set `true`, if you want to enable a public access to your service via a Zerops subdomain. Not suitable for production.

### priority

_int_

Services are sorted before creation by priority in descending order, i.e. the higher the priority the sooner the service is created.

### verticalAutoscaling

_nested object_

#### minVCpu

#### maxVCpu

#### cpuMode

_choose a value_

- **SHARED / DEDICATED**

#### minRam

_float_

Minimum RAM in GB that each container of the service can scale down to.

#### maxRam

_float_

Minimum RAM in GB that each container of the service can scale up to.

#### minDisk

_float_

Minimum disk space in GB that each container of the service can scale down to.

#### maxDisk

_float_

Minimum disk space in GB that each container of the service can scale up to.

#### startCpuCoreCount

_int_

Number of CPU cores with which each container starts.

#### minFreeCpuCores

_float_

Minimum number of unused CPU cores before a container starts scaling.

#### minFreeCpuPercent

_float_

Minimum percentage of unused CPU cores before a container starts scaling.

#### minFreeRamGB

_float_

Minimum unused memory in GB before a container starts scaling.

#### minFreeRamPercent

_float_

Minimum percentage of unused memory before a container starts scaling.

### minContainers

_int_ (default 1, maximum value 6)

Minimum number of containers of the service.

### maxContainers

_int_ (maximum value 6)

Maximum number of containers of the service.

### mount

_list of shared storage service hostnames_

Mount shared storages to the service. `buildFromGit` must be filled.

### nginxConfig

_nginx config_

Insert full nginx config.

### zeropsSetup

_string / yaml format_

Provide name of the service from your zerops.yml (find it under `-setup: {name}`) or insert full [zerops.yml configuration file](/references/zeropsyml).

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/references/import.mdx, after:

---
title: Project Import Yaml Configuration
description: Learn how you can write an import yaml for importing a project.
---

In this section you will find the fullest example of import yaml configuration file.

:::caution
Consider this a guideline only, not all keys are valid for all service types. If you want to know about the specifics of each technology, head to their **Create service** page in **How To** section.
:::

:::note

- `REQUIRED.` If a parent object is defined, the key-value pair is required to be filled. All other key-value pairs are optional.
  :::

```yml
# ==== Define a project to import ====
project:
  # REQUIRED. Name of your project
  name: project0
  # Project description
  description: "This project is an example only"
  # List of project tags for filtering
  tags:
    - test
    - dev
# ==== Define a list of services to import into the project ====
services:
  # REQUIRED. Name of your service
  - hostname: service1
    # REQUIRED. Choose from list of supported technologies and their versions
    type: nodejs@latest
    # HA or NON_HA mode
    mode: HA
    # Map of secret environment variables
    envSecrets:
      DATABASE_HOST: ${db_hostname}
      DATABASE_NAME: ${db_hostname}
    # Object storage size in GB
    objectStorageSize: 2
    # Choose object storage policy from a predefined list
    objectStoragePolicy: public-read-write
    # Define additional policy
    objectStorageRawPolicy:
    # One time build git repository
    buildFromGit: https://github.com/zeropsio/recipe-nodejs-hello-world@main
    # true or false
    enableSubdomainAccess: true
    # The higher the sooner the service is created
    priority: 1
    # Vertical autoscaling configuration object
    verticalAutoscaling:
      minVCpu: 1
      maxVCpu: 5
      # Choose SHARED or DEDICATED
      cpuMode: DEDICATED
      minRam: 1
      maxRam: 32
      minDisk: 1
      maxDisk: 100
      startCpuCoreCount:
      minFreeCpuCores:
      minFreeCpuPercent:
      minFreeRamGB:
      minFreeRamPercent:
    # Minimum number of containers
    minContainers: 2
    # Maximum number of containers
    maxContainers: 3
    # List of shared storage services to connect to
    mount:
      - teststorage1
    # Full nginx config
    nginxConfig: |-
      server {
          listen 80 default_server;
          listen [::]:80 default_server;

          server_name _;
          root /var/www;

          location / {
              try_files $uri $uri/ /index.html;
          }

          access_log syslog:server=unix:/dev/log,facility=local1 default_short;
          error_log syslog:server=unix:/dev/log,facility=local1;
      }
    # Zerops.yml service name or full config file
    zeropsSetup:
      build:
        base: nodejs@latest
        buildCommands:
          - echo zerops.yml from import
          - yarn
          - yarn run build
        deployFiles: ./
        cache: node_modules
      run:
        initCommands:
          - |
            if ! zcli bucket s3 create $STORAGE_HOSTNAME $STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME --x-amz-acl=private; then
            echo "The bucket was not created, you have to do it manually!"
            fi
        start: yarn start
  # REQUIRED. Name of your other service
  - hostname: teststorage1
    type: shared-storage
    ...
```

## project

_REQUIRED, iff a whole project is imported_

Only one project can be defined.

### name

_string, REQUIRED_

The name of the new project. Duplicates are allowed.

### description

_string_

Description of the new project.

### tags

_list of strings_

One or more string tags. Tags do not have a functional meaning, they only provide better orientation in projects.

## services

_REQUIRED section_

At least one service is required.

### hostname

_string, REQUIRED_

The unique service identifier.
Limitations:

- duplicates in the same project forbidden
- maximum 25 characters, lowercase ASCII letters (a-z) or numbers (0-9) only

### type

_choose a [value](/references/importyml/type-list), REQUIRED_

Specifies the service type and version.

### mode

_choose a value_

- **HA / NON_HA** (default NON_HA)

Defines the operation mode of the service.

### envSecrets

_list of key-value pairs_

Environment variables that are blurred by default in Zerops GUI. Can be edited or deleted in Zerops GUI.

### objectStorageSize

_int_

Object storage size in GB.

### objectStoragePolicy

_choose a value_

- **private / public-read / public-objects-read / public-write / public-read-write / custom**

Select a predefined AWS S3 bucket access policy.

### objectStorageRawPolicy

_json_

Define your own AWS S3 bucket access policy. See [AWS docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/access-policy-language-overview.html) for details.

Use `{{ .BucketName }}` placeholder if you need to use bucket name in your custom policy rules.

### buildFromGit

_url string_

A URL of a Github or Gitlab repository used for a one-time build of your service.

### enableSubdomainAccess

_boolean_ (default false)

Set `true`, if you want to enable a public access to your service via a Zerops subdomain. Not suitable for production.

### priority

_int_

Services are sorted before creation by priority in descending order, i.e. the higher the priority the sooner the service is created.

### verticalAutoscaling

_nested object_

#### minVCpu

#### maxVCpu

#### cpuMode

_choose a value_

- **SHARED / DEDICATED**

#### minRam

_float_

Minimum RAM in GB that each container of the service can scale down to.

#### maxRam

_float_

Minimum RAM in GB that each container of the service can scale up to.

#### minDisk

_float_

Minimum disk space in GB that each container of the service can scale down to.

#### maxDisk

_float_

Minimum disk space in GB that each container of the service can scale up to.

#### startCpuCoreCount

_int_

Number of CPU cores with which each container starts.

#### minFreeCpuCores

_float_

Minimum number of unused CPU cores before a container starts scaling.

#### minFreeCpuPercent

_float_

Minimum percentage of unused CPU cores before a container starts scaling.

#### minFreeRamGB

_float_

Minimum unused memory in GB before a container starts scaling.

#### minFreeRamPercent

_float_

Minimum percentage of unused memory before a container starts scaling.

### minContainers

_int_ (default 1, maximum value 6)

Minimum number of containers of the service.

### maxContainers

_int_ (maximum value 6)

Maximum number of containers of the service.

### mount

_list of shared storage service hostnames_

Mount shared storages to the service. `buildFromGit` must be filled.

### nginxConfig

_nginx config_

Insert full nginx config.

### zeropsSetup

_string / yaml format_

Provide name of the service from your zerops.yml (find it under `-setup: {name}`) or insert full [zerops.yml configuration file](/references/zeropsyml).
