apps/docs/content/references/ssh.mdx, before:

# Connecting to Your Service via SSH

:::note
SSH access is limited to runtime services and web servers.
Databases, message brokers, and object storage are excluded from this feature.
:::

To establish a SSH connection to your runtime service you need to start the [Zerops VPN](/references/vpn) first.

## Starting VPN

The [zCLI](/references/cli) is included with [Zerops VPN](/references/vpn) client. To connect to your [Zerops project](/features/infrastructure#project), follow these steps:

1. [Install and setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Start the Zerops VPN](/references/vpn#start-the-vpn)

## Establishing an SSH connection

Once the VPN session is active, you can establish an SSH connection to your [service](/features/infrastructure#services--containers) by running SSH with your [service](/features/infrastructure#services--containers) hostname:

```sh
ssh <service hostname>
```

For example, if you have a service with a hostname `app`, you can ssh into it by running:

```sh
ssh app
```

You may see the following SSH warning message:

```sh title="bash"
The authenticity of host 'app (x.x.x.x)' can't be established.
RSA key fingerprint is SHA256:5wdgRcp/...
This key is not known by any other names
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no/[fingerprint])?
```

Enter `yes` to trust this host and avoid future prompts.

## Connecting to a specific container

<p align="center">
  <img src="/img/screenshots/ssh.png" alt="image" width="100%" height="auto" style={{ borderRadius: 0.5 + 'rem' }} />
</p>

To connect to a specific container, replace the service hostname with the container hostname in the SSH parameter:

```sh
ssh <container hostname>
```

For example:

```sh
ssh node-id-1.runtime.app.zerops
```

:::note
In [HA mode](/features/scaling-ha), connecting to your service hostname connects you to a random container from your service.
:::

Each container in your project has a unique hostname like `node-id-1.runtime.app.zerops`.

When your application [scales horizontally](https://docs.zerops.io/features/scaling-ha#vertical-and-horizontal-auto-scaling),
new containers are created with incrementing numbers (e.g. `node-id-2.runtime.app.zerops`, `node-id-3.runtime.app.zerops`).

If containers are removed, their hostnames aren’t reused.
For instance, you might see containers like `node-id-5.runtime.app.zerops` and `node-id-12.runtime.app.zerops` after scaling.

Alternatively, containers may have sequential names such as `node1.runtime.app.zerops`, `node2.runtime.app.zerops`, etc.

Hostnames update as your service scales and can refer to different containers over time.

:::note
Avoid connecting to a container using its local IP address, as it may change.
:::

## Changes are not persistent

Avoid using SSH to make changes that need to persist in your service.

In [HA mode](/features/scaling-ha), any changes made via SSH only affect the specific container you're connected to.
When scaling or if a container is replaced, the current application version is redeployed to the new container.

To make changes that affect all containers and persist during runtime, use the [run.prepareCommands](https://docs.zerops.io/references/zeropsyml#preparecommands-1) or [run.initCommands](https://docs.zerops.io/references/zeropsyml#initcommands) pipeline commands.

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/references/ssh.mdx, after:

---
title: Connecting to Your Service via SSH
description: Learn how you can connection to your services via SSH with VPN.
---

:::note
SSH access is limited to runtime services and web servers.
Databases, message brokers, and object storage are excluded from this feature.
:::

To establish a SSH connection to your runtime service you need to start the [Zerops VPN](/references/vpn) first.

## Starting VPN

The [zCLI](/references/cli) is included with [Zerops VPN](/references/vpn) client. To connect to your [Zerops project](/features/infrastructure#project), follow these steps:

1. [Install and setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Start the Zerops VPN](/references/vpn#start-the-vpn)

## Establishing an SSH connection

Once the VPN session is active, you can establish an SSH connection to your [service](/features/infrastructure#services--containers) by running SSH with your [service](/features/infrastructure#services--containers) hostname:

```sh
ssh <service hostname>
```

For example, if you have a service with a hostname `app`, you can ssh into it by running:

```sh
ssh app
```

You may see the following SSH warning message:

```sh title="bash"
The authenticity of host 'app (x.x.x.x)' can't be established.
RSA key fingerprint is SHA256:5wdgRcp/...
This key is not known by any other names
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no/[fingerprint])?
```

Enter `yes` to trust this host and avoid future prompts.

## Connecting to a specific container

<p align="center">
  <img src="/img/screenshots/ssh.png" alt="image" width="100%" height="auto" style={{ borderRadius: 0.5 + 'rem' }} />
</p>

To connect to a specific container, replace the service hostname with the container hostname in the SSH parameter:

```sh
ssh <container hostname>
```

For example:

```sh
ssh node-id-1.runtime.app.zerops
```

:::note
In [HA mode](/features/scaling-ha), connecting to your service hostname connects you to a random container from your service.
:::

Each container in your project has a unique hostname like `node-id-1.runtime.app.zerops`.

When your application [scales horizontally](https://docs.zerops.io/features/scaling-ha#vertical-and-horizontal-auto-scaling),
new containers are created with incrementing numbers (e.g. `node-id-2.runtime.app.zerops`, `node-id-3.runtime.app.zerops`).

If containers are removed, their hostnames aren’t reused.
For instance, you might see containers like `node-id-5.runtime.app.zerops` and `node-id-12.runtime.app.zerops` after scaling.

Alternatively, containers may have sequential names such as `node1.runtime.app.zerops`, `node2.runtime.app.zerops`, etc.

Hostnames update as your service scales and can refer to different containers over time.

:::note
Avoid connecting to a container using its local IP address, as it may change.
:::

## Changes are not persistent

Avoid using SSH to make changes that need to persist in your service.

In [HA mode](/features/scaling-ha), any changes made via SSH only affect the specific container you're connected to.
When scaling or if a container is replaced, the current application version is redeployed to the new container.

To make changes that affect all containers and persist during runtime, use the [run.prepareCommands](https://docs.zerops.io/references/zeropsyml#preparecommands-1) or [run.initCommands](https://docs.zerops.io/references/zeropsyml#initcommands) pipeline commands.
