apps/docs/content/references/vpn.mdx, before:

# Using Zerops VPN

To begin, make sure you've [installed and set up zCLI](/references/cli).

## Start the VPN

Start a VPN session with:

```sh
zcli vpn up
```

```sh title="bash"
Usage:
  zcli vpn up [projectId] [flags]

Flags:
      --auto-disconnect    If set, zCLI will automatically disconnect from the VPN if it is already connected.
  -h, --help               the vpn up command.
      --projectId string   If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
```

Or connect to a specfic project by passing your project ID into the `projectId` parameter:

```sh
zcli vpn up Evs8Je4NTvKeIkUqoUXp2w
```

You may need enclose your project name with quotes if it contains contains spaces.

:::info
When running `zcli vpn up` for the first time, you'll be prompted to install the Zerops VPN daemon. Enter `y` to confirm (you may need to provide your root/administrator password).
:::

Once connected, you’ll have secure access to the project’s private network.

You can reach all services locally using their hostnames. However, environment variables are not available when connected via VPN.

You can only connect to one project at a time. If you’re already connected to another project, that connection will close automatically when you start a new one.

The VPN daemon keeps the connection open until you manually stop it. If the connection drops, it will automatically try to reconnect.

## Stop the VPN

Use `zcli vpn down` command to stop the existing VPN session.

```sh title="bash"
Usage:
  zcli vpn down [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help   the vpn down command.
```

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/references/vpn.mdx, after:

---
title: Using Zerops VPN
description: Learn how to use zerops vpn as a newbie.
---

To begin, make sure you've [installed and set up zCLI](/references/cli).

## Start the VPN

Start a VPN session with:

```sh
zcli vpn up
```

```sh title="bash"
Usage:
  zcli vpn up [projectId] [flags]

Flags:
      --auto-disconnect    If set, zCLI will automatically disconnect from the VPN if it is already connected.
  -h, --help               the vpn up command.
      --projectId string   If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                           command is to be executed.
```

Or connect to a specfic project by passing your project ID into the `projectId` parameter:

```sh
zcli vpn up Evs8Je4NTvKeIkUqoUXp2w
```

You may need enclose your project name with quotes if it contains contains spaces.

:::info
When running `zcli vpn up` for the first time, you'll be prompted to install the Zerops VPN daemon. Enter `y` to confirm (you may need to provide your root/administrator password).
:::

Once connected, you’ll have secure access to the project’s private network.

You can reach all services locally using their hostnames. However, environment variables are not available when connected via VPN.

You can only connect to one project at a time. If you’re already connected to another project, that connection will close automatically when you start a new one.

The VPN daemon keeps the connection open until you manually stop it. If the connection drops, it will automatically try to reconnect.

## Stop the VPN

Use `zcli vpn down` command to stop the existing VPN session.

```sh title="bash"
Usage:
  zcli vpn down [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help   the vpn down command.
```
