apps/docs/content/references/zeropsyml.mdx, before:

# Zerops YAML configuration

import data from '@site/static/data.json';
import UnorderedCodeList from '@site/src/components/UnorderedCodeList';

The `zerops.yml` file is crucial for defining how Zerops should [build and deploy](/features/pipeline) your application.
Add the `zerops.yml` file to the **root of your repository** and customize it to suit your application's needs.

---

## Quick Links to Runtime-Specific Guides

- [Node.js](/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [PHP](/php/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [Python](/python/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [Go](/go/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [.NET](/dotnet/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [Rust](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [Java](/java/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [nginx static](/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline)

## Basic Structure

```yml title="zerops.yml"
zerops:
  - setup: <service_name>
    build: ...
    run: ...
```

- The top-level element is always `zerops`.
- `setup` contains the **hostname** of your service (must exist in Zerops).
- Multiple services can be defined in a single `zerops.yml` (useful for monorepos):

```yml
zerops:
  - setup: app
    build: ...
    run: ...

  - setup: api
    build: ...
    run: ...
```

Each service configuration requires `build` and `run` sections. An optional `deploy` section can be added for readiness checks.

## Build Configuration

### base (Required)

Sets the base technology for the build environment. [See available options](/references/zeropsyml/base-list).

```yml
build:
  base: nodejs@latest
```

You can specify multiple technologies:

```yml
build:
  base:
    - nodejs@latest
    - python@3.9
```

### os (Optional)

Sets the operating system for the build environment. Options:

- `alpine` (default)
- `ubuntu`

Current versions:

- {data.alpineCurrentVersion}
- {data.ubuntuCurrentVersion}

```yml
build:
  os: ubuntu
```

### prepareCommands (Optional)

Customizes the build environment by installing additional dependencies or tools.

```yml
build:
  prepareCommands:
    - apt-get update
    - apt-get install -y some-package
```

### buildCommands (Required)

Defines the commands to build your application.

```yml
build:
  buildCommands:
    - npm install
    - npm run build
```

#### Running commands in a single shell instance:

```yml
buildCommands:
  - |
    npm install
    npm run build
```

### deployFiles (Required)

Specifies which files or folders to deploy after a successful build.

```yml
build:
  deployFiles:
    - dist
    - package.json
    - node_modules
```

#### Using wildcards:

```yml
deployFiles: ./path/~/to/file.txt
```

#### .deployignore

Use a `.deployignore` file to exclude specific files or folders from deployment.

### cache (Optional)

Defines which files or folders to cache for subsequent builds.

```yml
build:
  cache: node_modules
```

### envVariables (Optional)

Sets environment variables for the build environment.

```yml
build:
  envVariables:
    DB_NAME: db
    DB_HOST: db
    DB_USER: db
    DB_PASS: ${db_password}
```

## Runtime Configuration

### base (Optional)

Sets the base technology for the runtime environment. If not specified, the current version is maintained.

```yml
run:
  base: nodejs@latest
```

### os (Optional)

Sets the operating system for the runtime environment. Options and versions are the same as for the build environment.

### ports (Optional)

Specifies the internal ports on which your application will listen.

```yml
run:
  ports:
    - port: 8080
      protocol: TCP
      httpSupport: true
```

### prepareCommands (Optional)

Customizes the runtime environment by installing additional dependencies or tools.

### addToRunPrepare (Optional)

Defines files or folders to be copied from the build container to the prepare runtime container.

### initCommands (Optional)

Defines commands to run each time a new runtime container starts or restarts.

```yml
run:
  initCommands:
    - rm -rf ./cache
```

### start (Required for some runtimes)

Defines the start command for your application.

```yml
run:
  start: npm start
```

### startCommands (Optional)

Defines start commands 

Unlike `start`, you can define multiple commands that starts their own processes.

```yml
run:
  startCommands:
    # start the application
    - command: npm run start:prod
      name: server
    # start the replication
    
    - command: litestream replicate -config=litestream.yml
      name: replication
      # restore the database on container init
      initCommands:
        - litestream restore -if-replica-exists -if-db-not-exists -config=litestream.yml $DB_NAME
```

See [start-commands-example](https://github.com/zeropsio/start-commands-example)

### documentRoot (Optional)

Customizes the root folder for publicly accessible web server content (available only for webserver runtimes).

### siteConfigPath (Optional)

Sets the custom webserver configuration (available only for webserver runtimes).

### envVariables (Optional)

Defines environment variables for the runtime environment.

### healthCheck (Optional)

Defines a health check for your application.

```yml
run:
  healthCheck:
    httpGet:
      port: 80
      path: /status
```

## Deploy Configuration

### readinessCheck (Optional)

Defines a readiness check for your application. (See [readiness checks](/features/pipeline#readiness-checks))

```yml
deploy:
  readinessCheck:
    httpGet:
      port: 80
      path: /status
      host: 127.0.0.1
      scheme: https

    # Or use commands
    exec:
      command: |
        touch grass
        rm -rf life
        mv /outside/user /home/user
```

:::note
For more detailed information on specific configurations, refer to the runtime-specific guides linked at the beginning of this document.
:::

---

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/references/zeropsyml.mdx, after:

---
title: Zerops YAML Configuration
description: Learn how you can configure your zerops yaml and use the available parameters. 
---

import data from '@site/static/data.json';
import UnorderedCodeList from '@site/src/components/UnorderedCodeList';

The `zerops.yml` file is crucial for defining how Zerops should [build and deploy](/features/pipeline) your application.
Add the `zerops.yml` file to the **root of your repository** and customize it to suit your application's needs.

---

## Quick Links to Runtime-Specific Guides

- [Node.js](/nodejs/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [PHP](/php/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [Python](/python/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [Go](/go/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [.NET](/dotnet/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [Rust](/rust/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [Java](/java/how-to/build-pipeline)
- [nginx static](/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline)

## Basic Structure

```yml title="zerops.yml"
zerops:
  - setup: <service_name>
    build: ...
    run: ...
```

- The top-level element is always `zerops`.
- `setup` contains the **hostname** of your service (must exist in Zerops).
- Multiple services can be defined in a single `zerops.yml` (useful for monorepos):

```yml
zerops:
  - setup: app
    build: ...
    run: ...

  - setup: api
    build: ...
    run: ...
```

Each service configuration requires `build` and `run` sections. An optional `deploy` section can be added for readiness checks.

## Build Configuration

### base (Required)

Sets the base technology for the build environment. [See available options](/references/zeropsyml/base-list).

```yml
build:
  base: nodejs@latest
```

You can specify multiple technologies:

```yml
build:
  base:
    - nodejs@latest
    - python@3.9
```

### os (Optional)

Sets the operating system for the build environment. Options:

- `alpine` (default)
- `ubuntu`

Current versions:

- {data.alpineCurrentVersion}
- {data.ubuntuCurrentVersion}

```yml
build:
  os: ubuntu
```

### prepareCommands (Optional)

Customizes the build environment by installing additional dependencies or tools.

```yml
build:
  prepareCommands:
    - apt-get update
    - apt-get install -y some-package
```

### buildCommands (Required)

Defines the commands to build your application.

```yml
build:
  buildCommands:
    - npm install
    - npm run build
```

#### Running commands in a single shell instance:

```yml
buildCommands:
  - |
    npm install
    npm run build
```

### deployFiles (Required)

Specifies which files or folders to deploy after a successful build.

```yml
build:
  deployFiles:
    - dist
    - package.json
    - node_modules
```

#### Using wildcards:

```yml
deployFiles: ./path/~/to/file.txt
```

#### .deployignore

Use a `.deployignore` file to exclude specific files or folders from deployment.

### cache (Optional)

Defines which files or folders to cache for subsequent builds.

```yml
build:
  cache: node_modules
```

### envVariables (Optional)

Sets environment variables for the build environment.

```yml
build:
  envVariables:
    DB_NAME: db
    DB_HOST: db
    DB_USER: db
    DB_PASS: ${db_password}
```

## Runtime Configuration

### base (Optional)

Sets the base technology for the runtime environment. If not specified, the current version is maintained.

```yml
run:
  base: nodejs@latest
```

### os (Optional)

Sets the operating system for the runtime environment. Options and versions are the same as for the build environment.

### ports (Optional)

Specifies the internal ports on which your application will listen.

```yml
run:
  ports:
    - port: 8080
      protocol: TCP
      httpSupport: true
```

### prepareCommands (Optional)

Customizes the runtime environment by installing additional dependencies or tools.

### addToRunPrepare (Optional)

Defines files or folders to be copied from the build container to the prepare runtime container.

### initCommands (Optional)

Defines commands to run each time a new runtime container starts or restarts.

```yml
run:
  initCommands:
    - rm -rf ./cache
```

### start (Required for some runtimes)

Defines the start command for your application.

```yml
run:
  start: npm start
```

### startCommands (Optional)

Defines start commands 

Unlike `start`, you can define multiple commands that starts their own processes.

```yml
run:
  startCommands:
    # start the application
    - command: npm run start:prod
      name: server
    # start the replication
    
    - command: litestream replicate -config=litestream.yml
      name: replication
      # restore the database on container init
      initCommands:
        - litestream restore -if-replica-exists -if-db-not-exists -config=litestream.yml $DB_NAME
```

See [start-commands-example](https://github.com/zeropsio/start-commands-example)

### documentRoot (Optional)

Customizes the root folder for publicly accessible web server content (available only for webserver runtimes).

### siteConfigPath (Optional)

Sets the custom webserver configuration (available only for webserver runtimes).

### envVariables (Optional)

Defines environment variables for the runtime environment.

### healthCheck (Optional)

Defines a health check for your application.

```yml
run:
  healthCheck:
    httpGet:
      port: 80
      path: /status
```

## Deploy Configuration

### readinessCheck (Optional)

Defines a readiness check for your application. (See [readiness checks](/features/pipeline#readiness-checks))

```yml
deploy:
  readinessCheck:
    httpGet:
      port: 80
      path: /status
      host: 127.0.0.1
      scheme: https

    # Or use commands
    exec:
      command: |
        touch grass
        rm -rf life
        mv /outside/user /home/user
```

:::note
For more detailed information on specific configurations, refer to the runtime-specific guides linked at the beginning of this document.
:::

---
