apps/docs/content/references/zsc.mdx, before:

---
title: Using Zerops Setup Control(Zsc)
description: Interacting with zerops containers by connecting to the project network via zcli vpn with wireguard.
---

import Image from '/src/components/Image';

Zerops Setup Control(Zsc) is a cli tool / helper installed to all containers, runtime and build,
which allows some direct modifications, like triggering scaling from inside the container,
adding new technologies, making sure that commands (like migration) run only once (even when
staring some high available setup with 3 containers)

:::info
Zsc is automatically installed in all containers and is available both in runtime and build environments.
:::

## Command Overview

```sh
zsc --help
Zerops SetupControl CLI

Usage:
  zsc [command]

Available Commands:
  action               Perform specific predefined actions within the container
  backup-create        creates a new backup of the specified stack
  backup-current       Create a new backup of the current stack
  completion           Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell
  connectSharedStorage Connect shared storage to the container
  crontab              Perform crontab actions defined in zerops.yml
  execOnce             Execute a command once for the provided key
  fail-me              Fail current container
  help                 Help about any command
  install              Run install commands for the specified base
  noop                 Infinitely blocking command that does nothing
  scale                Scale container CPU or memory instantly*
  setSecretEnv         Set an secret environment variable in the current stack context
  test                 Run various tests
  version              application version

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for zsc

Use "zsc [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```

## Where to use ZSC

Before using these commands, you need to establish a VPN connection to your Zerops project network.

### Inside zerops.yml

You can use ZSC commands in your `zerops.yml` file.

```yaml
prepareCommands:
  - zcli vpn up
```

```yaml
buildCommands:
  - zcli vpn up
  - zcli vpn status
```

### VPN Connection

You can connect to your project network with `zcli` command line tool and interact with your containers inside the project.

```sh
zcli vpn up
```

### Web Terminal

Web Terminal allows you to interact with your service via remote web terminal.

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/gui/zsc-web-terminal.webp"
    darkImage="/img/gui/zsc-web-terminal.webp"
    alt="Zerops Setup Control Web Terminal"
    caption="Web Terminal"
    style={{ width: '100%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

:::info
The VPN connection is required to interact with your containers using ZSC commands.
:::

## Available Commands

### backup-create and backup-current

The `backup-create` command lets you create a backup of any specified stack in your project, while `backup-current` command creates a backup of the stack you're currently working in.

```sh
# Create backup of a specified stack
zsc backup-create

# Create backup of the current stack you're working in
zsc backup-current
```

:::info
Backups include all the data and configurations of the stack at the time of backup creation. These can be used for recovery or creating duplicate environments.
:::

### connectSharedStorage

This command lets you connect a shared storage volume to your service for persistent data storage.

```sh
zsc connectSharedStorage
```

### crontab
This command lets you manage scheduled tasks that are defined in your zerops.yml configuration.

```sh
zsc crontab
```

### execOnce

:::info
This command is particularly useful in high-availability setups to ensure commands (like database migrations) run only once, even when starting multiple containers.
:::

This command lets you execute a command exactly once across all containers in a service. Useful for database migrations in high-availability setups.

```sh
zsc execOnce "db-migration" "php artisan migrate"
```

### fail-me
This command lets you deliberately fail the current container for testing purposes.

```sh
zsc fail-me
```

### install
You can install additional base technologies in your runtime container that weren't specified in the initial configuration.

:::info
The `install` command allows you to add technologies that weren't specified in the initial base configuration.
:::

Example usage in `zerops.yml`:
```yaml
zerops:
  - setup: nodejsapp
    build:
      os: ubuntu
      base: 
        - nodejs@22
        - python@3.7
    run:      
      os: ubuntu
      base: nodejs@22
      prepareCommands:
        - zsc install python@3.7
```

### noop
An infinitely blocking command that does nothing and keeps the container alive so that it doesn't end because of an error.

:::info
The `noop` command is particularly useful for debugging build failures by keeping the container alive for investigation.
:::

```sh
zsc noop [--silent]
```

The `--silent` flag suppresses any output from the command.

### scale
This command dynamically adjusts CPU or memory resources for the current container.

:::caution
If there aren't enough resources available on the current node, using `scale` may trigger a container move to another node. This will reset the scale duration.
:::

```sh
# Scale CPU
zsc scale cpu auto           # Reset to automatic scaling
zsc scale cpu 5 1h          # Scale to 5 CPU cores for 1 hour
zsc scale cpu +2 30m        # Add 2 CPU cores for 30 minutes

# Scale Memory
zsc scale memory auto       # Reset to automatic scaling
zsc scale memory 5GB 1h     # Scale to 5GB RAM for 1 hour
zsc scale memory +2.5GB 600s # Add 2.5GB RAM for 600 seconds
```

:::info
- Scaling takes effect within ~10 seconds
- Duration must be at least 10 minutes
- Supported values: "auto", "min", "max", or numeric values
- RAM values require units (KiB, MiB, GiB)
- CPU values must be integers without units
- Use "+" prefix for relative scaling
:::

### test tcp
This command verifies TCP connectivity to a specified host and port.

```sh
zsc test tcp <host>:<port> [--timeout <duration>] [--dialTimeout <duration>] [-4] [-6]
```

- **`<host>`**: Server address to connect to
- **`<port>`**: Port number to connect to
- **`--timeout <duration>`**: Maximum test duration (default: 30s)
- **`--dialTimeout <duration>`**: Single attempt timeout (default: 2s)
- **`-4`**: Force IPv4
- **`-6`**: Force IPv6

Example:
```sh
zsc test tcp database:5432 --timeout 1m
```

### setSecretEnv
This command sets a secret environment variable in the current stack context.

```sh
zsc setSecretEnv [key] [content] [flags]
```

Examples:
```sh
# Direct value
zsc setSecretEnv SECRET_KEY "new_value"

# From stdin
echo "new_value" | zsc setSecretEnv SECRET_KEY -
```

### version
This command displays the current version of Zsc CLI.

```sh
zsc version
```

Commit message:

add note about SIGTERM signal

apps/docs/content/references/zsc.mdx, after:

---
title: Using Zerops Setup Control(Zsc)
description: Interacting with zerops containers by connecting to the project network via zcli vpn with wireguard.
---

import Image from '/src/components/Image';

Zerops Setup Control(Zsc) is a cli tool / helper installed to all containers, runtime and build,
which allows some direct modifications, like triggering scaling from inside the container,
adding new technologies, making sure that commands (like migration) run only once (even when
staring some high available setup with 3 containers)

:::info
Zsc is automatically installed in all containers and is available both in runtime and build environments.
:::

## Command Overview

```sh
zsc --help
Zerops SetupControl CLI

Usage:
  zsc [command]

Available Commands:
  action               Perform specific predefined actions within the container
  backup-create        creates a new backup of the specified stack
  backup-current       Create a new backup of the current stack
  completion           Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell
  connectSharedStorage Connect shared storage to the container
  crontab              Perform crontab actions defined in zerops.yml
  execOnce             Execute a command once for the provided key
  fail-me              Fail current container
  help                 Help about any command
  install              Run install commands for the specified base
  noop                 Infinitely blocking command that does nothing
  scale                Scale container CPU or memory instantly*
  setSecretEnv         Set an secret environment variable in the current stack context
  test                 Run various tests
  version              application version

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for zsc

Use "zsc [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```

## Where to use ZSC

Before using these commands, you need to establish a VPN connection to your Zerops project network.

### Inside zerops.yml

You can use ZSC commands in your `zerops.yml` file.

```yaml
prepareCommands:
  - zcli vpn up
```

```yaml
buildCommands:
  - zcli vpn up
  - zcli vpn status
```

### VPN Connection

You can connect to your project network with `zcli` command line tool and interact with your containers inside the project.

```sh
zcli vpn up
```

### Web Terminal

Web Terminal allows you to interact with your service via remote web terminal.

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/gui/zsc-web-terminal.webp"
    darkImage="/img/gui/zsc-web-terminal.webp"
    alt="Zerops Setup Control Web Terminal"
    caption="Web Terminal"
    style={{ width: '100%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

:::info
The VPN connection is required to interact with your containers using ZSC commands.
:::

## Available Commands

### backup-create and backup-current

The `backup-create` command lets you create a backup of any specified stack in your project, while `backup-current` command creates a backup of the stack you're currently working in.

```sh
# Create backup of a specified stack
zsc backup-create

# Create backup of the current stack you're working in
zsc backup-current
```

:::info
Backups include all the data and configurations of the stack at the time of backup creation. These can be used for recovery or creating duplicate environments.
:::

### connectSharedStorage

This command lets you connect a shared storage volume to your service for persistent data storage.

```sh
zsc connectSharedStorage
```

### crontab
This command lets you manage scheduled tasks that are defined in your zerops.yml configuration.

```sh
zsc crontab
```

### execOnce

:::info
This command is particularly useful in high-availability setups to ensure commands (like database migrations) run only once, even when starting multiple containers.
:::

This command lets you execute a command exactly once across all containers in a service. Useful for database migrations in high-availability setups.

```sh
zsc execOnce "db-migration" "php artisan migrate"
```

### fail-me
This command lets you deliberately fail the current container for testing purposes.

```sh
zsc fail-me
```

### install
You can install additional base technologies in your runtime container that weren't specified in the initial configuration.

:::info
The `install` command allows you to add technologies that weren't specified in the initial base configuration.
:::

Example usage in `zerops.yml`:
```yaml
zerops:
  - setup: nodejsapp
    build:
      os: ubuntu
      base: 
        - nodejs@22
        - python@3.7
    run:      
      os: ubuntu
      base: nodejs@22
      prepareCommands:
        - zsc install python@3.7
```

### noop
An infinitely blocking command that does nothing and keeps the container alive so that it doesn't end because of an error. The command runs indefinitely until it receives a SIGTERM signal.

:::info
The `noop` command is particularly useful for debugging build failures by keeping the container alive for investigation.
:::

```sh
zsc noop [--silent]
```

The `--silent` flag suppresses any output from the command.

### scale
This command dynamically adjusts CPU or memory resources for the current container.

:::caution
If there aren't enough resources available on the current node, using `scale` may trigger a container move to another node. This will reset the scale duration.
:::

```sh
# Scale CPU
zsc scale cpu auto           # Reset to automatic scaling
zsc scale cpu 5 1h          # Scale to 5 CPU cores for 1 hour
zsc scale cpu +2 30m        # Add 2 CPU cores for 30 minutes

# Scale Memory
zsc scale memory auto       # Reset to automatic scaling
zsc scale memory 5GB 1h     # Scale to 5GB RAM for 1 hour
zsc scale memory +2.5GB 600s # Add 2.5GB RAM for 600 seconds
```

:::info
- Scaling takes effect within ~10 seconds
- Duration must be at least 10 minutes
- Supported values: "auto", "min", "max", or numeric values
- RAM values require units (KiB, MiB, GiB)
- CPU values must be integers without units
- Use "+" prefix for relative scaling
:::

### test tcp
This command verifies TCP connectivity to a specified host and port.

```sh
zsc test tcp <host>:<port> [--timeout <duration>] [--dialTimeout <duration>] [-4] [-6]
```

- **`<host>`**: Server address to connect to
- **`<port>`**: Port number to connect to
- **`--timeout <duration>`**: Maximum test duration (default: 30s)
- **`--dialTimeout <duration>`**: Single attempt timeout (default: 2s)
- **`-4`**: Force IPv4
- **`-6`**: Force IPv6

Example:
```sh
zsc test tcp database:5432 --timeout 1m
```

### setSecretEnv
This command sets a secret environment variable in the current stack context.

```sh
zsc setSecretEnv [key] [content] [flags]
```

Examples:
```sh
# Direct value
zsc setSecretEnv SECRET_KEY "new_value"

# From stdin
echo "new_value" | zsc setSecretEnv SECRET_KEY -
```

### version
This command displays the current version of Zsc CLI.

```sh
zsc version
```
