apps/docs/content/mariadb/tech-details/cluster.mdx, before:

---
title: ​​​​Asynchronous behaviour of MariaDB cluster
---

The following description applies only to the [highly available mode](/mariadb/how-to/create#highly-available) of the MariaDB service.

## Description of MariaDB cluster

MariaDB cluster in highly available mode contains 3 database containers and 2 free database proxies.

**// TODO diagram [inspirace](https://mariadb.com/resources/blog/mariadb-maxscale-6-0-native-clustering/)**

#### 1 write node + 2 read nodes

Zerops always keeps the 3 database containers on different physical machines. A MariaDB cluster node is installed in each database container. First a writer node is started followed by 2 read nodes. All your data is stored redundantly in 3 identical copies.

If the container with one of the reader nodes fails, Zerops disconnects it from the MariaDB cluster. Zerops then creates a new container with a MariaDB read node inside, connects it to the cluster and starts the synchronisation of the data to the new node. Finally the broken container is deleted.

If the container with the writer node fails, Zerops disconnects it from the MariaDB cluster and one of the read nodes is automatically promoted to the writer node. Zerops creates a new container with a MariaDB read node inside, connects it to the cluster and starts the synchronisation of the data to the new node. Finally the broken container is deleted.

#### 2 database proxies

Zerops uses [MaxScale 2.5 ↗](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/maxscale/), this database proxy is optimised specifically for MariaDB. MaxScale database proxy understands the mysql protocol. It forwards all **write requests** to the writer node and all **read requests** to read nodes.

Zerops creates 2 containers with MaxScale database proxy and connects them to the database cluster in the highly available infrastructure. Zerops always keep the 2 database proxies on different physical machines.

If a container with the database proxy fails, Zerops starts a new container automatically. Database proxy doesn't contain any data therefore the start of the new database proxy is fast.

## Synchronous vs. Asynchronous replication

#### Synchronous replication

Synchronous replication guarantees that when a change happens on the write node, it is replicated on the read nodes synchronously. Synchronous replication uses a distributed locking which proved to be very slow. The data replication from the write node to the read nodes takes some time and the write transactions must wait until the changed data is successfully replicated to all database nodes. In case one of the database nodes is overloaded, the whole cluster becomes very slow.

#### Asynchronous replication

Asynchronous replication gives no guarantees about the delay between applying changes on the write node and the propagation of changes to all read nodes. The delay is usually very short but when one of the read containers is overloaded the delay can be longer. The main benefit of the asynchronous replication is the performance. Write transaction is completed when the write node successfully commits the transaction locally and writes it to the write-ahead log that prevents the loss of data.

The downside of the asynchronous replication is no guarantee that the read nodes will always return the current data. In some cases a `SELECT` query that quickly follows the previous `COMMIT` may return old data. As mentioned above, the database proxy forwards all read requests to read nodes. When the read node processes the `SELECT` query before the replication of the previous transaction is finished, old data is returned.

Zerops uses the asynchronous replication in MariaDB cluster.

## How to deal with situations when old data is returned

#### Use explicit transactions

MariaDB cluster returns old data most often when you use the `SELECT` query right after the `COMMIT` in the same algorithm. This problem can be solved by moving the `SELECT` query into the transaction. All queries inside a `BEGIN..COMMIT` transaction are always executed against the write node.

#### Enable synchronous checks for SELECT queries

For a critical read that must have the most up-to-date data use the `wsrep_sync_wait` option:

```sh
SET SESSION wsrep_sync_wait=1;
SELECT ...;
SET SESSION wsrep_sync_wait=0;
```

When the `wsrep_sync_wait=1` option is used, the read node will synchronise data from the write node before executing the query. The read node will wait until all updates from the write node that were committed before the `SELECT` query was received and only then executes the query.

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/mariadb/tech-details/cluster.mdx, after:

---
title: Asynchronous behaviour of MariaDB cluster
description: Learn how you can work with asynchronous behaviour of mariadb cluster on Zerops.
---

The following description applies only to the [highly available mode](/mariadb/how-to/create#highly-available) of the MariaDB service.

## Description of MariaDB cluster

MariaDB cluster in highly available mode contains 3 database containers and 2 free database proxies.

**// TODO diagram [inspirace](https://mariadb.com/resources/blog/mariadb-maxscale-6-0-native-clustering/)**

#### 1 write node + 2 read nodes

Zerops always keeps the 3 database containers on different physical machines. A MariaDB cluster node is installed in each database container. First a writer node is started followed by 2 read nodes. All your data is stored redundantly in 3 identical copies.

If the container with one of the reader nodes fails, Zerops disconnects it from the MariaDB cluster. Zerops then creates a new container with a MariaDB read node inside, connects it to the cluster and starts the synchronisation of the data to the new node. Finally the broken container is deleted.

If the container with the writer node fails, Zerops disconnects it from the MariaDB cluster and one of the read nodes is automatically promoted to the writer node. Zerops creates a new container with a MariaDB read node inside, connects it to the cluster and starts the synchronisation of the data to the new node. Finally the broken container is deleted.

#### 2 database proxies

Zerops uses [MaxScale 2.5 ↗](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/maxscale/), this database proxy is optimised specifically for MariaDB. MaxScale database proxy understands the mysql protocol. It forwards all **write requests** to the writer node and all **read requests** to read nodes.

Zerops creates 2 containers with MaxScale database proxy and connects them to the database cluster in the highly available infrastructure. Zerops always keep the 2 database proxies on different physical machines.

If a container with the database proxy fails, Zerops starts a new container automatically. Database proxy doesn't contain any data therefore the start of the new database proxy is fast.

## Synchronous vs. Asynchronous replication

#### Synchronous replication

Synchronous replication guarantees that when a change happens on the write node, it is replicated on the read nodes synchronously. Synchronous replication uses a distributed locking which proved to be very slow. The data replication from the write node to the read nodes takes some time and the write transactions must wait until the changed data is successfully replicated to all database nodes. In case one of the database nodes is overloaded, the whole cluster becomes very slow.

#### Asynchronous replication

Asynchronous replication gives no guarantees about the delay between applying changes on the write node and the propagation of changes to all read nodes. The delay is usually very short but when one of the read containers is overloaded the delay can be longer. The main benefit of the asynchronous replication is the performance. Write transaction is completed when the write node successfully commits the transaction locally and writes it to the write-ahead log that prevents the loss of data.

The downside of the asynchronous replication is no guarantee that the read nodes will always return the current data. In some cases a `SELECT` query that quickly follows the previous `COMMIT` may return old data. As mentioned above, the database proxy forwards all read requests to read nodes. When the read node processes the `SELECT` query before the replication of the previous transaction is finished, old data is returned.

Zerops uses the asynchronous replication in MariaDB cluster.

## How to deal with situations when old data is returned

#### Use explicit transactions

MariaDB cluster returns old data most often when you use the `SELECT` query right after the `COMMIT` in the same algorithm. This problem can be solved by moving the `SELECT` query into the transaction. All queries inside a `BEGIN..COMMIT` transaction are always executed against the write node.

#### Enable synchronous checks for SELECT queries

For a critical read that must have the most up-to-date data use the `wsrep_sync_wait` option:

```sh
SET SESSION wsrep_sync_wait=1;
SELECT ...;
SET SESSION wsrep_sync_wait=0;
```

When the `wsrep_sync_wait=1` option is used, the read node will synchronise data from the write node before executing the query. The read node will wait until all updates from the write node that were committed before the `SELECT` query was received and only then executes the query.
