apps/docs/content/references/cli/access-logs.mdx, before:

---
title: How to access logs in zCLI
---

To start the VPN you need first [install & setup zCLI](/references/cli), the Zerops command-line tool.

## Build log

To access a build log in Zerops CLI use

```sh
zcli service log --showBuildLogs
```

The command returns the build log to `stdout` with a streaming option. By default the command returns the last 100 log messages and exits. Use the `--follow` flag to continuously pool for new log messages.

#### Command annotation

```sh
Usage:
  zcli service log [flags]

Flags:
      --follow                   If set, zCLI will continuously poll for new log messages. By default, the command will exit
                                 once there are no more logs to display. To exit from this mode, use Control-C.
      --format string            The format of returned log messages. Following formats are supported:
                                 FULL: This is the default format. Messages will be returned in the complete Syslog format.
                                 SHORT: Returns only timestamp and log message.
                                 JSON: Messages will be returned as one JSON object.
                                 JSONSTREAM: Messages will be returned as stream of JSON objects. (default "FULL")
      --formatTemplate string    Set a custom log format. Can be used only with --format=FULL.
                                 Example: --formatTemplate="{{.timestamp}} {{.severity}} {{.facility}} {{.message}}".
                                 Supports standard GoLang template format and functions.
  -h, --help                     the service log command.
      --limit int                How many of the most recent log messages will be returned. Allowed interval is <1;1000>.
                                 Default value = 100. (default 100)
      --messageType string       Select either APPLICATION or WEBSERVER log messages to be returned. Default value = APPLICATION. (default "APPLICATION")
      --minimumSeverity string   Returns log messages with requested or higher severity. Set either severity number in the interval
                                 <0;7> or one of following severity codes:
                                 EMERGENCY, ALERT, CRITICAL, ERROR, WARNING, NOTICE, INFORMATIONAL, DEBUG.
      --projectId string         If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                                 command is to be executed.
      --serviceId string         If you have access to more than one service, you must specify the service ID for which the
                                 command is to be executed.
      --showBuildLogs            If set, zCLI will return build log messages instead of runtime log messages.
```

zCLI commands are interactive, when you press enter after `zcli service log`, you will be given a list of your projects to choose from.

## Runtime log

To access the log of the first runtime container in Zerops CLI use

```sh
zcli service log
```

The command returns the runtime log of the first container to `stdout` with a streaming option. By default the command returns the last 100 log messages and exits. Use the `--follow` flag to continuously pool for new log messages.

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/references/cli/access-logs.mdx, after:

---
title: How to access logs via zCLI
description: Learn more about how you can access your logs via zCLI.
---

To start the VPN you need first [install & setup zCLI](/references/cli), the Zerops command-line tool.

## Build log

To access a build log in Zerops CLI use

```sh
zcli service log --showBuildLogs
```

The command returns the build log to `stdout` with a streaming option. By default the command returns the last 100 log messages and exits. Use the `--follow` flag to continuously pool for new log messages.

#### Command annotation

```sh
Usage:
  zcli service log [flags]

Flags:
      --follow                   If set, zCLI will continuously poll for new log messages. By default, the command will exit
                                 once there are no more logs to display. To exit from this mode, use Control-C.
      --format string            The format of returned log messages. Following formats are supported:
                                 FULL: This is the default format. Messages will be returned in the complete Syslog format.
                                 SHORT: Returns only timestamp and log message.
                                 JSON: Messages will be returned as one JSON object.
                                 JSONSTREAM: Messages will be returned as stream of JSON objects. (default "FULL")
      --formatTemplate string    Set a custom log format. Can be used only with --format=FULL.
                                 Example: --formatTemplate="{{.timestamp}} {{.severity}} {{.facility}} {{.message}}".
                                 Supports standard GoLang template format and functions.
  -h, --help                     the service log command.
      --limit int                How many of the most recent log messages will be returned. Allowed interval is <1;1000>.
                                 Default value = 100. (default 100)
      --messageType string       Select either APPLICATION or WEBSERVER log messages to be returned. Default value = APPLICATION. (default "APPLICATION")
      --minimumSeverity string   Returns log messages with requested or higher severity. Set either severity number in the interval
                                 <0;7> or one of following severity codes:
                                 EMERGENCY, ALERT, CRITICAL, ERROR, WARNING, NOTICE, INFORMATIONAL, DEBUG.
      --projectId string         If you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the
                                 command is to be executed.
      --serviceId string         If you have access to more than one service, you must specify the service ID for which the
                                 command is to be executed.
      --showBuildLogs            If set, zCLI will return build log messages instead of runtime log messages.
```

zCLI commands are interactive, when you press enter after `zcli service log`, you will be given a list of your projects to choose from.

## Runtime log

To access the log of the first runtime container in Zerops CLI use

```sh
zcli service log
```

The command returns the runtime log of the first container to `stdout` with a streaming option. By default the command returns the last 100 log messages and exits. Use the `--follow` flag to continuously pool for new log messages.
