apps/docs/content/references/cli/commands.mdx, before:

# Available Commands

## Usage

```sh
zcli {command} [flags]
```

### Example output

```sh title="bash"
Welcome in Zerops!
You are loged as <Name> <Email>
and your VPN connection is not active.

Usage:
──────
zcli [flags]
zcli [command]

Available Commands:
───────────────────
completion      Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell
env             Displays global environment variables, their paths and additional options
help            Help about any command
login           Login into Zerops with generated Zerops token
logout          Disconnect from VPN and log out from your Zerops account
project         Project commands group
push            Builds your application in Zerops and deploys it
scope           Scope commands group
service         Zerops service commands group
show-debug-logs Shows zCLI debug logs
support         How to contact Zerops support for assistance
version         Shows the current zCLI version
vpn             VPN commands group

Flags:
──────
  -h, --help   help for zcli

Use "zcli [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```

## Commands

---

### help

Show the help

```sh
zcli help
```

---

### completion

Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell.

```sh
zcli completion {bash|fish|powershell|zsh} [--no-descriptions]
```

---

### login

Logs you into Zerops. Use a generated Zerops token or your login e-mail and password.

```sh
zcli login <token>
```

---

### project

Project related commands.

```sh
zcli project {sub-command} [arguments] [flags]
```

#### Available sub-commands

- `delete`
- `list`
- `project-import`
- `service-import`

#### Available arguments

- `importYamlPath` - Required by `project-import` and `service-import`

#### Available flags

- `delete`

  - `--projectId <id>`
  - `--confirm` - confirm deletion without prompt

- `project-import`

  - `--orgId <id>`
  - `--workingDir <path>` - sets a custom working directory, default working directory is the current directory (default: `./`)

- `service-import`
  - `--projectId <id>` - if you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the command is to be executed

---

### push

```sh
zcli push {flags}
```

#### Available flags

- `--archiveFilePath <path>` - Creates a tar.gz archive of the application code at the specified path relative to the working directory. If not set, no archive is created.
- `--deployGitFolder` - Includes the `.git` folder in the upload. By default, the `.git` folder is excluded.
- `--projectId <project-id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects. Specifies the target project ID for command execution.
- `--serviceId <service-id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services. Specifies the target service ID for command execution.
- `--versionName <version-name>` - Sets a custom version name. If the `VERSIONNAME` environment variable exists, its value is used automatically.
- `--workingDir <path>` - Sets a custom working directory. Defaults to the current directory (`./`).
- `--zeropsYamlPath <path>` - Specifies a custom path to the `zerops.yml` file relative to the working directory. By default, zCLI looks for `zerops.yml` in the working directory.

---

### scope

```sh
zcli scope [sub-command] <project-id>
```

#### Available sub-commands

- `project` - Sets the scope for project. All commands that require project ID will use the selected one.
- `reset` - Resets the scope for project and service.

#### Required parameters

- `project-id`

---

### service

Service related commands.

```sh
zcli service {sub-command} [arguments] [flags]
```

#### Available sub-commands

- `delete` - Deletes the Zerops service
- `deploy` - Deploys your application to Zerops
- `enable-subdomain` - Enables access through Zerops subdomain
- `list` - Lists all services in the project
- `log` - Get service runtime or build log to stdout
- `push` - Builds your application in Zerops and deploys it
- `start` - Starts the Zerops service
- `stop` - Stops the Zerops service

#### Available flags

- `delete`

  - `--confirm` - If set, zCLI will not ask for confirmation of destructive operations
  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects
  - `--serviceId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services

- `deploy`

  - `--archiveFilePath <path>` - Creates a tar.gz archive of the application code at the specified path
  - `--deployGitFolder` - Includes the `.git` folder in the upload
  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects
  - `--serviceId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services
  - `--versionName <name>` - Sets a custom version name
  - `--workingDir <path>` - Sets a custom working directory (default: `./`)
  - `--zeropsYamlPath <path>` - Specifies a custom path to the `zerops.yml` file

- `enable-subdomain`

  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects
  - `--serviceId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services

- `list`

  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects

- `log`

  - `--follow` - Continuously poll for new log messages
  - `--format <format>` - The format of returned log messages (FULL, SHORT, JSON, JSONSTREAM)
  - `--formatTemplate <template>` - Set a custom log format
  - `--limit <number>` - Number of most recent log messages to return (1-1000, default: 100)
  - `--messageType <type>` - Select APPLICATION or WEBSERVER log messages
  - `--minimumSeverity <severity>` - Returns log messages with requested or higher severity
  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects
  - `--serviceId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services
  - `--showBuildLogs` - Return build log messages instead of runtime log messages

- `push`

  - Same flags as `deploy`

- `start`

  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects
  - `--serviceId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services

- `stop`
  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects
  - `--serviceId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services

#### .deployignore

Add a `.deployignore` file to the root of your project to specify which files and folders Zerops should ignore during deploy. The syntax is the same as a `.gitignore` file.

Example to ignore `src/file.txt` file in deploy:

```jsx title="zerops.yml"
zerops:
  - setup: app
    build:
      deployFiles: ./
```

```jsx title=".deployignore"
src / file.txt;
```

---

### show-debug-logs

Log debug-logs

```sh
zcli show-debug-logs
```

---

### version

Shows zCLI's current version

```sh
zcli version
```

---

### vpn

```sh
zcli vpn [up|down] <projectId> [flags]
```

#### Available sub-commands

- `up` - Connects to the Zerops VPN.
- `down` - Disconnects from the Zerops VPN.

#### Available flags

- `--auto-disconnect` - if set, zCLI will automatically disconnect from the VPN if it is already connected
- `--projectId` - if you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the command is to be executed

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/references/cli/commands.mdx, after:

---
title: Available Commands
description: The available commands in our command line tool which you can use to interact with Zerops.
---
## Usage

```sh
zcli {command} [flags]
```

### Example output

```sh title="bash"
Welcome in Zerops!
You are loged as <Name> <Email>
and your VPN connection is not active.

Usage:
──────
zcli [flags]
zcli [command]

Available Commands:
───────────────────
completion      Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell
env             Displays global environment variables, their paths and additional options
help            Help about any command
login           Login into Zerops with generated Zerops token
logout          Disconnect from VPN and log out from your Zerops account
project         Project commands group
push            Builds your application in Zerops and deploys it
scope           Scope commands group
service         Zerops service commands group
show-debug-logs Shows zCLI debug logs
support         How to contact Zerops support for assistance
version         Shows the current zCLI version
vpn             VPN commands group

Flags:
──────
  -h, --help   help for zcli

Use "zcli [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```

## Commands

---

### help

Show the help

```sh
zcli help
```

---

### completion

Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell.

```sh
zcli completion {bash|fish|powershell|zsh} [--no-descriptions]
```

---

### login

Logs you into Zerops. Use a generated Zerops token or your login e-mail and password.

```sh
zcli login <token>
```

---

### project

Project related commands.

```sh
zcli project {sub-command} [arguments] [flags]
```

#### Available sub-commands

- `delete`
- `list`
- `project-import`
- `service-import`

#### Available arguments

- `importYamlPath` - Required by `project-import` and `service-import`

#### Available flags

- `delete`

  - `--projectId <id>`
  - `--confirm` - confirm deletion without prompt

- `project-import`

  - `--orgId <id>`
  - `--workingDir <path>` - sets a custom working directory, default working directory is the current directory (default: `./`)

- `service-import`
  - `--projectId <id>` - if you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the command is to be executed

---

### push

```sh
zcli push {flags}
```

#### Available flags

- `--archiveFilePath <path>` - Creates a tar.gz archive of the application code at the specified path relative to the working directory. If not set, no archive is created.
- `--deployGitFolder` - Includes the `.git` folder in the upload. By default, the `.git` folder is excluded.
- `--projectId <project-id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects. Specifies the target project ID for command execution.
- `--serviceId <service-id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services. Specifies the target service ID for command execution.
- `--versionName <version-name>` - Sets a custom version name. If the `VERSIONNAME` environment variable exists, its value is used automatically.
- `--workingDir <path>` - Sets a custom working directory. Defaults to the current directory (`./`).
- `--zeropsYamlPath <path>` - Specifies a custom path to the `zerops.yml` file relative to the working directory. By default, zCLI looks for `zerops.yml` in the working directory.

---

### scope

```sh
zcli scope [sub-command] <project-id>
```

#### Available sub-commands

- `project` - Sets the scope for project. All commands that require project ID will use the selected one.
- `reset` - Resets the scope for project and service.

#### Required parameters

- `project-id`

---

### service

Service related commands.

```sh
zcli service {sub-command} [arguments] [flags]
```

#### Available sub-commands

- `delete` - Deletes the Zerops service
- `deploy` - Deploys your application to Zerops
- `enable-subdomain` - Enables access through Zerops subdomain
- `list` - Lists all services in the project
- `log` - Get service runtime or build log to stdout
- `push` - Builds your application in Zerops and deploys it
- `start` - Starts the Zerops service
- `stop` - Stops the Zerops service

#### Available flags

- `delete`

  - `--confirm` - If set, zCLI will not ask for confirmation of destructive operations
  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects
  - `--serviceId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services

- `deploy`

  - `--archiveFilePath <path>` - Creates a tar.gz archive of the application code at the specified path
  - `--deployGitFolder` - Includes the `.git` folder in the upload
  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects
  - `--serviceId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services
  - `--versionName <name>` - Sets a custom version name
  - `--workingDir <path>` - Sets a custom working directory (default: `./`)
  - `--zeropsYamlPath <path>` - Specifies a custom path to the `zerops.yml` file

- `enable-subdomain`

  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects
  - `--serviceId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services

- `list`

  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects

- `log`

  - `--follow` - Continuously poll for new log messages
  - `--format <format>` - The format of returned log messages (FULL, SHORT, JSON, JSONSTREAM)
  - `--formatTemplate <template>` - Set a custom log format
  - `--limit <number>` - Number of most recent log messages to return (1-1000, default: 100)
  - `--messageType <type>` - Select APPLICATION or WEBSERVER log messages
  - `--minimumSeverity <severity>` - Returns log messages with requested or higher severity
  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects
  - `--serviceId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services
  - `--showBuildLogs` - Return build log messages instead of runtime log messages

- `push`

  - Same flags as `deploy`

- `start`

  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects
  - `--serviceId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services

- `stop`
  - `--projectId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple projects
  - `--serviceId <id>` - Required if you have access to multiple services

#### .deployignore

Add a `.deployignore` file to the root of your project to specify which files and folders Zerops should ignore during deploy. The syntax is the same as a `.gitignore` file.

Example to ignore `src/file.txt` file in deploy:

```jsx title="zerops.yml"
zerops:
  - setup: app
    build:
      deployFiles: ./
```

```jsx title=".deployignore"
src / file.txt;
```

---

### show-debug-logs

Log debug-logs

```sh
zcli show-debug-logs
```

---

### version

Shows zCLI's current version

```sh
zcli version
```

---

### vpn

```sh
zcli vpn [up|down] <projectId> [flags]
```

#### Available sub-commands

- `up` - Connects to the Zerops VPN.
- `down` - Disconnects from the Zerops VPN.

#### Available flags

- `--auto-disconnect` - if set, zCLI will automatically disconnect from the VPN if it is already connected
- `--projectId` - if you have access to more than one project, you must specify the project ID for which the command is to be executed
