apps/docs/content/object-storage/how-to/access.mdx, before:

---
title: Access object storage
---

Zerops Object storage is powered by [MinIO](https://min,io), a high-performance, S3 compatible object store. Object storage services are operated on an independent infrastructure separated from your other project services. You can access the object storage from any service hosted in Zerops or remotely over the internet.

## Object storage bucket

Zerops creates one bucket automatically for each new Object storage service.

:::note
Each Object storage service can only contain one bucket. If your application needs multiple buckets, add more Object storage services.
:::

#### Name

Bucket is created with a name based on the selected service name and a random prefix. The name of the bucket cannot be changed later.

#### Access policy

The bucket's access policy was defined when the Object storage service was created. You can [change it] later in Zerops GUI.

#### Quota

The bucket quota size was defined when the Object storage service was created. You can [change it] later in Zerops GUI.

## Copy access details from Zerops GUI

You will find the Object storage access details under the **Access details** button in the project dashboard page.

The same information is available in the service detail page under the **Access & bucket details** menu.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/object_storage_access_details.png"
    alt="image"
    width="80%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

### Object storage access parameters

| Parameter         | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **API URL**       | URL of the Object storage service                                                                                                                  |
| **Bucket Name**   | Bucket is created with a name based on the selected service name and a random prefix. The name of the bucket is fixed and cannot be changed later. |
| **Access Key ID** | The S3 Access Key ID                                                                                                                               |
| **Secret Key**    | The S3 Secret Key                                                                                                                                  |

## Use Object storage environment variables

Zerops creates default environment variables for each Object storage service to help you with connection from any runtime services in the same project. To avoid the need to copy Object storage access parameters manually, use environment variables in your runtime service.

### Prefix the environment variable key

All services of the same project can reference environment variables from other services. To use an environment variable from one service in another service in the same project, you must prefix the environment variable key with the service name and underscore.

#### Example

To access the `bucketName` env variable of the `upload` service, use `upload_bucketName` as the env variable key. To access the `secretAccessKey` env variable of the `storage` service, use `storage_secretAccessKey` as the env variable key.

### Object storage environment variables

List of service environment variables is available in Zerops GUI. Go to an Object storage service detail and choose **Environment variables** in the left menu.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/object_storage_generated_env.png"
    alt="image"
    width="100%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

Zerops creates following environment variables when the Object storage service is created:

| Variable            | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **apiUrl**          | URL of the Object storage service                                                                                                                  |
| **accessKeyId**     | The S3 Access Key ID                                                                                                                               |
| **secretAccessKey** | The S3 Secret Key                                                                                                                                  |
| **bucketName**      | Bucket is created with a name based on the selected service name and a random prefix. The name of the bucket is fixed and cannot be changed later. |
| **quotaGBytes**     | The bucket quota in GB.                                                                                                                            |
| **projectId**       | ID of the project. Generated by Zerops.                                                                                                            |
| **serviceId**       | ID of the Object storage service. Generated by Zerops.                                                                                             |
| **hostname**        | The name of the Object storage service.                                                                                                            |

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/object-storage/how-to/access.mdx, after:

---
title: Access object storage
description: Learn how to access object storage on Zerops.
---

Zerops Object storage is powered by [MinIO](https://min,io), a high-performance, S3 compatible object store. Object storage services are operated on an independent infrastructure separated from your other project services. You can access the object storage from any service hosted in Zerops or remotely over the internet.

## Object storage bucket

Zerops creates one bucket automatically for each new Object storage service.

:::note
Each Object storage service can only contain one bucket. If your application needs multiple buckets, add more Object storage services.
:::

#### Name

Bucket is created with a name based on the selected service name and a random prefix. The name of the bucket cannot be changed later.

#### Access policy

The bucket's access policy was defined when the Object storage service was created. You can [change it] later in Zerops GUI.

#### Quota

The bucket quota size was defined when the Object storage service was created. You can [change it] later in Zerops GUI.

## Copy access details from Zerops GUI

You will find the Object storage access details under the **Access details** button in the project dashboard page.

The same information is available in the service detail page under the **Access & bucket details** menu.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/object_storage_access_details.png"
    alt="image"
    width="80%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

### Object storage access parameters

| Parameter         | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **API URL**       | URL of the Object storage service                                                                                                                  |
| **Bucket Name**   | Bucket is created with a name based on the selected service name and a random prefix. The name of the bucket is fixed and cannot be changed later. |
| **Access Key ID** | The S3 Access Key ID                                                                                                                               |
| **Secret Key**    | The S3 Secret Key                                                                                                                                  |

## Use Object storage environment variables

Zerops creates default environment variables for each Object storage service to help you with connection from any runtime services in the same project. To avoid the need to copy Object storage access parameters manually, use environment variables in your runtime service.

### Prefix the environment variable key

All services of the same project can reference environment variables from other services. To use an environment variable from one service in another service in the same project, you must prefix the environment variable key with the service name and underscore.

#### Example

To access the `bucketName` env variable of the `upload` service, use `upload_bucketName` as the env variable key. To access the `secretAccessKey` env variable of the `storage` service, use `storage_secretAccessKey` as the env variable key.

### Object storage environment variables

List of service environment variables is available in Zerops GUI. Go to an Object storage service detail and choose **Environment variables** in the left menu.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/object_storage_generated_env.png"
    alt="image"
    width="100%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

Zerops creates following environment variables when the Object storage service is created:

| Variable            | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **apiUrl**          | URL of the Object storage service                                                                                                                  |
| **accessKeyId**     | The S3 Access Key ID                                                                                                                               |
| **secretAccessKey** | The S3 Secret Key                                                                                                                                  |
| **bucketName**      | Bucket is created with a name based on the selected service name and a random prefix. The name of the bucket is fixed and cannot be changed later. |
| **quotaGBytes**     | The bucket quota in GB.                                                                                                                            |
| **projectId**       | ID of the project. Generated by Zerops.                                                                                                            |
| **serviceId**       | ID of the Object storage service. Generated by Zerops.                                                                                             |
| **hostname**        | The name of the Object storage service.                                                                                                            |
