apps/docs/content/object-storage/how-to/update-bucket.mdx, before:

---
title: Change bucket size or access policy
---

Zerops creates one bucket automatically for each new Object storage service.

:::note
Each Object storage service can only contain one bucket. If your application needs multiple buckets, add more Object storage services.
:::

To change the bucket size or the access policy, go to the **Access & bucket details** in the Object service detail in Zerops GUI, scroll down and click on the **Configure bucket quota size and access policy** button.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/object_storage_bucket_quota.png"
    alt="image"
    width="80%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

### Quota

Set the bucket quota size in GB. The quota must be set manually. It can be changed later in Zerops GUI. Zerops doesn't support Object storage autoscaling. You can set the bucket quota from 1 to 100 GB.

### Access policy

Zerops creates one bucket automatically for each new Object storage service.

:::note
Each Object storage service can only contain one bucket. If your application needs multiple buckets, add more Object storage services.
:::

#### Name

Bucket will be created with a name based on the given service name and a random prefix. The name of the bucket cannot be changed later.

#### Access policy

Select one of the basic policy templates:

| Template                   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| <b>Public read</b>         | Allows anyone:<ul><li>to read the bucket's location `(s3:GetBucketLocation)`</li><li>to list all bucket's objects `(s3:ListBucket)`</li><li>to get any object of the bucket `(s3:GetObject)`</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| <b>Public objects read</b> | Allows anyone:<ul><li>to read the bucket's location `(s3:GetBucketLocation)`</li><li>to get any object of the bucket `(s3:GetObject)`</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| <b>Public read write</b>   | Allows anyone:<ul><li>to read the bucket's location `(s3:GetBucketLocation)`</li><li>to list all bucket's objects `(s3:ListBucket)`</li><li>to get any object of the bucket `(s3:GetObject)`</li><li>to create a new object in the bucket `(s3:PutObject,s3:ListMultipartUploadParts, s3:AbortMultipartUpload, s3:ListBucketMultipartUploads)`</li><li>to delete any object of the bucket `(s3:DeleteObject)`</li></ul> |
| <b>Public write</b>        | Allows anyone to create objects in the bucket `(PutObject action)`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| <b>Private</b>             | Denies the access to unauthenticated users.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Or you can set your own access policy in the [IAM Policy JSON format](https://min.io/docs/minio/linux/administration/identity-access-management/policy-based-access-control.html#policy-document-structure).

#### Example:

```yml
{
  'Version': '2012-10-17',
  'Statement':
    [
      {
        'Effect': 'Allow',
        'Principal': { 'AWS': ['*'] },
        'Action': ['s3:GetBucketLocation', 's3:ListBucket'],
        'Resource': ['arn:aws:s3:::{{.BucketName}}'],
      },
      {
        'Effect': 'Allow',
        'Principal': { 'AWS': ['*'] },
        'Action': ['s3:GetObject'],
        'Resource': ['arn:aws:s3:::{{.BucketName}}/*'],
      },
    ],
}
```

:::tip
The `{{ .BucketName }}` variable will be replaced by the bucket name.
:::

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/object-storage/how-to/update-bucket.mdx, after:

---
title: Change bucket size or access policy
description: Learn how to change bucket size or access policy of your object storage on Zerops.
---

Zerops creates one bucket automatically for each new Object storage service.

:::note
Each Object storage service can only contain one bucket. If your application needs multiple buckets, add more Object storage services.
:::

To change the bucket size or the access policy, go to the **Access & bucket details** in the Object service detail in Zerops GUI, scroll down and click on the **Configure bucket quota size and access policy** button.

<p align="center">
  <img
    src="/img/screenshots/object_storage_bucket_quota.png"
    alt="image"
    width="80%"
    height="auto"
  />
</p>

### Quota

Set the bucket quota size in GB. The quota must be set manually. It can be changed later in Zerops GUI. Zerops doesn't support Object storage autoscaling. You can set the bucket quota from 1 to 100 GB.

### Access policy

Zerops creates one bucket automatically for each new Object storage service.

:::note
Each Object storage service can only contain one bucket. If your application needs multiple buckets, add more Object storage services.
:::

#### Name

Bucket will be created with a name based on the given service name and a random prefix. The name of the bucket cannot be changed later.

#### Access policy

Select one of the basic policy templates:

| Template                   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| <b>Public read</b>         | Allows anyone:<ul><li>to read the bucket's location `(s3:GetBucketLocation)`</li><li>to list all bucket's objects `(s3:ListBucket)`</li><li>to get any object of the bucket `(s3:GetObject)`</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| <b>Public objects read</b> | Allows anyone:<ul><li>to read the bucket's location `(s3:GetBucketLocation)`</li><li>to get any object of the bucket `(s3:GetObject)`</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| <b>Public read write</b>   | Allows anyone:<ul><li>to read the bucket's location `(s3:GetBucketLocation)`</li><li>to list all bucket's objects `(s3:ListBucket)`</li><li>to get any object of the bucket `(s3:GetObject)`</li><li>to create a new object in the bucket `(s3:PutObject,s3:ListMultipartUploadParts, s3:AbortMultipartUpload, s3:ListBucketMultipartUploads)`</li><li>to delete any object of the bucket `(s3:DeleteObject)`</li></ul> |
| <b>Public write</b>        | Allows anyone to create objects in the bucket `(PutObject action)`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| <b>Private</b>             | Denies the access to unauthenticated users.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Or you can set your own access policy in the [IAM Policy JSON format](https://min.io/docs/minio/linux/administration/identity-access-management/policy-based-access-control.html#policy-document-structure).

#### Example:

```yml
{
  'Version': '2012-10-17',
  'Statement':
    [
      {
        'Effect': 'Allow',
        'Principal': { 'AWS': ['*'] },
        'Action': ['s3:GetBucketLocation', 's3:ListBucket'],
        'Resource': ['arn:aws:s3:::{{.BucketName}}'],
      },
      {
        'Effect': 'Allow',
        'Principal': { 'AWS': ['*'] },
        'Action': ['s3:GetObject'],
        'Resource': ['arn:aws:s3:::{{.BucketName}}/*'],
      },
    ],
}
```

:::tip
The `{{ .BucketName }}` variable will be replaced by the bucket name.
:::
