apps/docs/content/dotnet/how-to/customize-runtime.mdx, before:

---
title: Customise .NET runtime environment
---

import Image from '/src/components/Image';

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/screenshots/build_deploy_pipeline_custom_runtime.png"
    darkImage="/img/screenshots/build_deploy_pipeline_custom_runtime.png"
    alt="Build Deploy pipeline"
    style={{ width: '95%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

import data from '@site/static/data.json';

The default .NET runtime environment contains:

- <span>{data.alpineCurrentVersion}</span>
- selected version of .NET selected when the runtime service was created.
- <a href="/references/cli">
    `zCLI`
  </a>
  , Zerops command line tool
- ASP .NET`and`git`

If you prefer the Ubuntu OS instead of Alpine, set the `<a href="/dotnet/how-to/build-pipeline#os">build.os</a>` attribute to `ubuntu`. To install additional packages or tools add one or more <a href="/dotnet/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands-1">`run.prepareCommands`</a> commands to your `zerops.yml`.

When the first deploy with a defined `prepareCommands` attribute is triggered, Zerops will

1. create a prepare runtime container
2. optionally: [copy selected folders or files from your build container](/dotnet/how-to/build-pipeline#copy-folders-or-files-from-your-build-container)
3. run the `run.prepareCommands` commands in the defined order

### Command exit code

If any command fails, it returns an exit code other than 0 and the deploy is canceled. Read the [prepare runtime log](/dotnet/how-to/logs#prepare-runtime-log) to troubleshoot the error. If the command ends successfully, it returns the exit code 0 and Zerops triggers the following command. When all `prepareCommands` commands are finished, your custom runtime environment is ready for the deploy phase.

The prepare runtime container is automatically deleted after the prepare runtime phase has finished or failed.

### Custom runtime environment cache

Some packages or tools can take a long time to install. Therefore, Zerops caches your custom runtime environment after the installation of your custom packages or tools is completed. When the second or following deploy is triggered, Zerops will use the custom runtime cache from the previous deploy if following conditions are met:

1. Content of the <a href="/dotnet/how-to/build-pipeline#copy-folders-or-files-from-your-build-container">`build.addToRunPrepare`</a> and <a href="/dotnet/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands-1">`run.prepareCommands`</a> attributes didn't change from the previous deploy
2. The custom runtime cache wasn't invalidated in the Zerops GUI.

To invalidate the custom runtime cache go to `yyy`

**// TODO screenshot**

When the custom runtime cache is used, Zerops doesn't create a prepare runtime container and executes the deployment of your application directly.

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/dotnet/how-to/customize-runtime.mdx, after:

---
title: Customise .NET runtime environment
description: Learn how you can customise your dotnet runtime environment on Zerops.
---

import Image from '/src/components/Image';

<p align="center">
  <Image
    lightImage="/img/screenshots/build_deploy_pipeline_custom_runtime.png"
    darkImage="/img/screenshots/build_deploy_pipeline_custom_runtime.png"
    alt="Build Deploy pipeline"
    style={{ width: '95%', height: 'auto' }}
  />
</p>

import data from '@site/static/data.json';

The default .NET runtime environment contains:

- <span>{data.alpineCurrentVersion}</span>
- selected version of .NET selected when the runtime service was created.
- <a href="/references/cli">
    `zCLI`
  </a>
  , Zerops command line tool
- ASP .NET`and`git`

If you prefer the Ubuntu OS instead of Alpine, set the `<a href="/dotnet/how-to/build-pipeline#os">build.os</a>` attribute to `ubuntu`. To install additional packages or tools add one or more <a href="/dotnet/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands-1">`run.prepareCommands`</a> commands to your `zerops.yml`.

When the first deploy with a defined `prepareCommands` attribute is triggered, Zerops will

1. create a prepare runtime container
2. optionally: [copy selected folders or files from your build container](/dotnet/how-to/build-pipeline#copy-folders-or-files-from-your-build-container)
3. run the `run.prepareCommands` commands in the defined order

### Command exit code

If any command fails, it returns an exit code other than 0 and the deploy is canceled. Read the [prepare runtime log](/dotnet/how-to/logs#prepare-runtime-log) to troubleshoot the error. If the command ends successfully, it returns the exit code 0 and Zerops triggers the following command. When all `prepareCommands` commands are finished, your custom runtime environment is ready for the deploy phase.

The prepare runtime container is automatically deleted after the prepare runtime phase has finished or failed.

### Custom runtime environment cache

Some packages or tools can take a long time to install. Therefore, Zerops caches your custom runtime environment after the installation of your custom packages or tools is completed. When the second or following deploy is triggered, Zerops will use the custom runtime cache from the previous deploy if following conditions are met:

1. Content of the <a href="/dotnet/how-to/build-pipeline#copy-folders-or-files-from-your-build-container">`build.addToRunPrepare`</a> and <a href="/dotnet/how-to/build-pipeline#preparecommands-1">`run.prepareCommands`</a> attributes didn't change from the previous deploy
2. The custom runtime cache wasn't invalidated in the Zerops GUI.

To invalidate the custom runtime cache go to `yyy`

**// TODO screenshot**

When the custom runtime cache is used, Zerops doesn't create a prepare runtime container and executes the deployment of your application directly.
