apps/docs/content/nginx/how-to/access.mdx, before:

---
title: How to access your Nginx application
---

## Private internal access

Projects in Zerops represent a group of one or more services.
Services can be of different types (runtime services, databases, message brokers, object storage, etc.). All services of the same project share a **dedicated private network**. To connect to a service within the same project, just use the service hostname and its [internal port](/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#ports).

To connect to your application with `app` hostname running on [internal port](/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#ports) `80`, simply use `http://app:80`

:::info
Do not use `https://` when communicating with Nginx from other runtime services in the same project. The internal communication is done over a private network and is isolated from other projects.
:::

### Use Nginx environment variables

Zerops creates default environment variables for each Nginx static service to help you with connection within the same project. To avoid the need to copy the access parameters manually, use [generated environment variables](/nginx/how-to/env-variables#generated-env-variables) of the Nginx static service.

#### Prefix the environment variable key

All services of the same project can reference environment variables from other services. To use an environment variable from one service in another service in the same project, you must prefix the environment variable key with the service hostname and underscore.

#### Example:

To access the `API_TOKEN` env variable of the `app` service, use `app_API_TOKEN` as the env variable key.

Read more about [env variables](/nginx/how-to/env-variables).

## Private access via VPN

### Start VPN connection

You can securely connect to your Nginx application from your local workspace via Zerops VPN. Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start a VPN connection to the selected Zerops project, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Start the Zerops VPN](/references/vpn#start-the-vpn)

### Access Nginx application through VPN

Once the VPN session is established, you have the secured connection to the project's private network in Zerops. You can access all project services locally by using their hostname. The only difference is that no [environment variables](/nginx/how-to/env-variables) are available when connected through VPN. To connect to your Nginx application in Zerops set the hostname and [internal port](/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#ports) e.g. http://app:80

:::info
Do not use `https://` when communicating with Nginx over the VPN. The security is assured by the VPN. The internal communication is done over a private network and is isolated from other projects.
:::

### Connect via SSH

Use the <a href="/references/ssh">`ssh` command</a> to connect to your service via SSH.

### Stop VPN connection

[Stop the Zerops VPN](/references/vpn#stop-the-vpn) in zCLI.

## Public access through zerops.io subdomain

By default, your Nginx static service is not publicly accessible. To test your application, enable the [public access through zerops.io subdomain](/features/access#public-access-through-zeropsio-subdomain).

## Public access through your domain

By default, your Nginx static service is not publicly accessible. When your application is ready for production or if you want to test it on the production domain, [configure the public access through your domain](/features/access#public-access-through-your-domain).

## Public access from another Zerops project

All services of the same project share a dedicated private network. To connect to a service within the same project, just use the service hostname and its [internal port](/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#ports). Different projects are not connected inside Zerops. To connect to a runtime service from another Zerops project, you need to use public access either [through zerops.io subdomain](/features/access#public-access-through-zeropsio-subdomain) or [through your domain](/features/access#public-access-through-your-domain).

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/nginx/how-to/access.mdx, after:

---
title: How to access your Nginx application
description: Learn more about how you can access your nginx application on Zerops.
---

## Private internal access

Projects in Zerops represent a group of one or more services.
Services can be of different types (runtime services, databases, message brokers, object storage, etc.). All services of the same project share a **dedicated private network**. To connect to a service within the same project, just use the service hostname and its [internal port](/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#ports).

To connect to your application with `app` hostname running on [internal port](/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#ports) `80`, simply use `http://app:80`

:::info
Do not use `https://` when communicating with Nginx from other runtime services in the same project. The internal communication is done over a private network and is isolated from other projects.
:::

### Use Nginx environment variables

Zerops creates default environment variables for each Nginx static service to help you with connection within the same project. To avoid the need to copy the access parameters manually, use [generated environment variables](/nginx/how-to/env-variables#generated-env-variables) of the Nginx static service.

#### Prefix the environment variable key

All services of the same project can reference environment variables from other services. To use an environment variable from one service in another service in the same project, you must prefix the environment variable key with the service hostname and underscore.

#### Example:

To access the `API_TOKEN` env variable of the `app` service, use `app_API_TOKEN` as the env variable key.

Read more about [env variables](/nginx/how-to/env-variables).

## Private access via VPN

### Start VPN connection

You can securely connect to your Nginx application from your local workspace via Zerops VPN. Zerops VPN client is included into zCLI, the Zerops command-line tool. To start a VPN connection to the selected Zerops project, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Start the Zerops VPN](/references/vpn#start-the-vpn)

### Access Nginx application through VPN

Once the VPN session is established, you have the secured connection to the project's private network in Zerops. You can access all project services locally by using their hostname. The only difference is that no [environment variables](/nginx/how-to/env-variables) are available when connected through VPN. To connect to your Nginx application in Zerops set the hostname and [internal port](/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#ports) e.g. http://app:80

:::info
Do not use `https://` when communicating with Nginx over the VPN. The security is assured by the VPN. The internal communication is done over a private network and is isolated from other projects.
:::

### Connect via SSH

Use the <a href="/references/ssh">`ssh` command</a> to connect to your service via SSH.

### Stop VPN connection

[Stop the Zerops VPN](/references/vpn#stop-the-vpn) in zCLI.

## Public access through zerops.io subdomain

By default, your Nginx static service is not publicly accessible. To test your application, enable the [public access through zerops.io subdomain](/features/access#public-access-through-zeropsio-subdomain).

## Public access through your domain

By default, your Nginx static service is not publicly accessible. When your application is ready for production or if you want to test it on the production domain, [configure the public access through your domain](/features/access#public-access-through-your-domain).

## Public access from another Zerops project

All services of the same project share a dedicated private network. To connect to a service within the same project, just use the service hostname and its [internal port](/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#ports). Different projects are not connected inside Zerops. To connect to a runtime service from another Zerops project, you need to use public access either [through zerops.io subdomain](/features/access#public-access-through-zeropsio-subdomain) or [through your domain](/features/access#public-access-through-your-domain).
