apps/docs/content/nginx/how-to/customize-web-server.mdx, before:

---
title: Customize web server
---

## Default Nginx configuration

The default Nginx static service has following configuration:

```
server {
    listen 80 default_server;
    listen [::]:80 default_server;

    server_name _;
    root {{.DocumentRoot}};

    location / {
        try_files $uri $uri/ /index.html;
    }

    access_log syslog:server=unix:/dev/log,facility=local1,tag=nginx,severity=info default_short;
    error_log syslog:server=unix:/dev/log,facility=local1,tag=nginx,severity=error;
}
```

The configuration contains 2 variables:

- **`{{.DocumentRoot}}`** is replaced by the <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#documentroot">`run.documentRoot`</a> attribute from the `zerops.yml`. If the attribute is not specified, the default value `/var/www` is used.

## Customize Nginx configuration

Follow these steps to customize the Nginx configuration in Nginx static service:

1. Create a **.tmpl** file with the Nginx configuration in your repository.

2. Optionally use following variables:

- **`{{.DocumentRoot}}`** is replaced by the <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#documentroot">`run.documentRoot`</a> attribute from the `zerops.yml`. If the attribute is not specified, the default value `/var/www` is used.

Example:

```
root {{.DocumentRoot}};
```

- **`{{.Environment.ENV_NAME}}`** is replaced by the [env variable](/nginx/how-to/env-variables) value. The env variable must be either defined in [run.envVariables](/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#envvariables-1) in `zerops.yml` or set as a [secret](/nginx/how-to/env-variables#set-secret-env-variables-in-zerops-gui) or [generated](/nginx/how-to/env-variables#generated-env-variables) env variable in Zerops GUI.

:::caution
Use the **.tmpl** file extension to make Zerops interpret the file as a template. Zerops will replace the supported variables listed above.
:::

3. Check that your Nginx configuration is consistent with Zerops requirements:

- Do not use IP addresses in the `listen` directive
- If you use other ports than `:80` in the `listen` directive, add them to the <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#ports">`run.ports`</a> in your `zerops.yml` as well.
- Do not use the port **:443**. All the incoming `https://` traffic is terminated on the Zerops internal balancer where the SSL certificate is installed and the request is forwarded to your Nginx static service as a **http://** on the port **:80**.

4. Add the <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#siteconfigpath">`siteConfigPath`</a> to the run section of your `zerops.yml`

```yml
zerops:
  # define hostname of your service
  - setup: app
    # ==== how to build your application ====
    build:
      # REQUIRED. Set the base technology for the build environment:
      base: nodejs@latest

      # REQUIRED. Select which files / folders to deploy after
      # the build has successfully finished
      deployFiles:
        - vendor
        - public

    # ==== how to run your application ====
    run:
      documentRoot: public

      # OPTIONAL. Sets the custom Nginx or Apache configuration. The file must be deployed in the runtime container. Enter the path to the file relative to the /var/www folder
      siteConfigPath: site_config.tmpl
```

5. Ensure that the <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#deployfiles">`build.deployFiles`</a> contains the folder with the `siteConfigPath` or add the path to the Nginx config file to the `deployFiles` list. Zerops will deploy the file to the runtime container(s).

6. [Trigger](/nginx/how-to/trigger-pipeline) the build & deploy pipeline.

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/nginx/how-to/customize-web-server.mdx, after:

---
title: Customize web server
description: Learn how you can customize a web server in nginx on Zerops.
---

## Default Nginx configuration

The default Nginx static service has following configuration:

```
server {
    listen 80 default_server;
    listen [::]:80 default_server;

    server_name _;
    root {{.DocumentRoot}};

    location / {
        try_files $uri $uri/ /index.html;
    }

    access_log syslog:server=unix:/dev/log,facility=local1,tag=nginx,severity=info default_short;
    error_log syslog:server=unix:/dev/log,facility=local1,tag=nginx,severity=error;
}
```

The configuration contains 2 variables:

- **`{{.DocumentRoot}}`** is replaced by the <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#documentroot">`run.documentRoot`</a> attribute from the `zerops.yml`. If the attribute is not specified, the default value `/var/www` is used.

## Customize Nginx configuration

Follow these steps to customize the Nginx configuration in Nginx static service:

1. Create a **.tmpl** file with the Nginx configuration in your repository.

2. Optionally use following variables:

- **`{{.DocumentRoot}}`** is replaced by the <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#documentroot">`run.documentRoot`</a> attribute from the `zerops.yml`. If the attribute is not specified, the default value `/var/www` is used.

Example:

```
root {{.DocumentRoot}};
```

- **`{{.Environment.ENV_NAME}}`** is replaced by the [env variable](/nginx/how-to/env-variables) value. The env variable must be either defined in [run.envVariables](/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#envvariables-1) in `zerops.yml` or set as a [secret](/nginx/how-to/env-variables#set-secret-env-variables-in-zerops-gui) or [generated](/nginx/how-to/env-variables#generated-env-variables) env variable in Zerops GUI.

:::caution
Use the **.tmpl** file extension to make Zerops interpret the file as a template. Zerops will replace the supported variables listed above.
:::

3. Check that your Nginx configuration is consistent with Zerops requirements:

- Do not use IP addresses in the `listen` directive
- If you use other ports than `:80` in the `listen` directive, add them to the <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#ports">`run.ports`</a> in your `zerops.yml` as well.
- Do not use the port **:443**. All the incoming `https://` traffic is terminated on the Zerops internal balancer where the SSL certificate is installed and the request is forwarded to your Nginx static service as a **http://** on the port **:80**.

4. Add the <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#siteconfigpath">`siteConfigPath`</a> to the run section of your `zerops.yml`

```yml
zerops:
  # define hostname of your service
  - setup: app
    # ==== how to build your application ====
    build:
      # REQUIRED. Set the base technology for the build environment:
      base: nodejs@latest

      # REQUIRED. Select which files / folders to deploy after
      # the build has successfully finished
      deployFiles:
        - vendor
        - public

    # ==== how to run your application ====
    run:
      documentRoot: public

      # OPTIONAL. Sets the custom Nginx or Apache configuration. The file must be deployed in the runtime container. Enter the path to the file relative to the /var/www folder
      siteConfigPath: site_config.tmpl
```

5. Ensure that the <a href="/nginx/how-to/build-pipeline#deployfiles">`build.deployFiles`</a> contains the folder with the `siteConfigPath` or add the path to the Nginx config file to the `deployFiles` list. Zerops will deploy the file to the runtime container(s).

6. [Trigger](/nginx/how-to/trigger-pipeline) the build & deploy pipeline.
