apps/docs/content/nginx/how-to/shared-storage.mdx, before:

---
title: Create shared storage service in Zerops
---

Zerops provides [shared storage service](/shared-storage/overview) that can be connected to runtime services. Shared storage enables your runtime service to share files between all containers of the same service or even among containers of different runtime services.

## Connect a shared storage in Zerops GUI

Connect your Nginx static service directly when creating a new shared storage service. Just select your Nginx static service in the **Share with Services** block on the **Add new shared storage service** page.

![connect_shared_storage_1](/img/screenshots/connect_shared_storage_1.png)

To connect the existing shared storage to the Nginx static service, go to the shared storage service detail and select **Shared storage connections**. A list of all your current runtime services will be shown. Select a runtime service and the shared storage will be connected to the selected runtime.

![connect_shared_storage_1](/img/screenshots/connect_shared_storage_2.png)

Zerops will create a new folder `/mnt/[shared storage name]`` in the runtime root folder. E.g. `/mnt/teststorage`for a`teststorage` shared storage. The content of this folder is shared among all containers of the runtime service you've selected. If you select multiple runtimes, the content of the folder will be shared among all containers of selected services.

## Disconnect a shared storage in Zerops GUI

Go to the shared storage service detail and select **Shared storage connections**. A list of all your current runtime services will be shown. Switch off the toggle to disconnect the shared storage from the selected runtime.

:::note
Your runtime service will be automatically restarted when a shared storage is disconnected.
:::

## Create Nginx static service with a shared storage using zCLI

zCLI is the Zerops command-line tool. To create a new Nginx static service via the command-line, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Create a project description file](/nginx/how-to/shared-storage#create-a-project-description-file)
3. [Create a project with a Nginx static service and a shared storage](/nginx/how-to/shared-storage#create-a-project-with-a-nginx-service-and-a-shared-storage)

### Create a project description file

Zerops uses a yaml format to describe the project infrastructure.

#### description.yml format

[Read the basics](/nginx/how-to/create#create-a-project-description-file) how to define the Nginx static service using the description.yml.

#### Example with a shared storage

Create a directory `my-project`. Create an `description.yml` file inside the `my-project` directory with following content:

```yml
# basic project data
project:
  # project name
  name: my-project

  # optional: project description
  description: A project with a Nginx and a shared storage

  # optional: project tags
  tags:
    - DEMO
    - ZEROPS

# array of project services
services:
  - # service name
    hostname: teststorage

    # shared storage service has no version
    type: shared-storage

    # mode: HA / NON_HA
    mode: NON_HA

  - # service name
    hostname: app

    # service type and version number in nginx@{version} or nginx@latest format
    type: nginx@latest

    # defines the minimum number of containers for horizontal autoscaling. Max value = 6.
    minContainers: 2

    # defines the maximum number of containers for horizontal autoscaling. Max value = 6.
    maxContainers: 4

    # Mount the shared storage to the Nginx static service
    mount:
      - teststorage
```

The mount attribute accepts an array of shared storage names you want to mount to your runtime service.

### Create a project with a Nginx static service and a shared storage

Follow the article [How to create a project based on the description.yml](/nginx/how-to/create#create-a-project-based-on-the-descriptionyml).

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/nginx/how-to/shared-storage.mdx, after:

---
title: Create shared storage service in Zerops
description: Learn how to create shared storage which you can use with your nginx service on Zerops.
---

Zerops provides [shared storage service](/shared-storage/overview) that can be connected to runtime services. Shared storage enables your runtime service to share files between all containers of the same service or even among containers of different runtime services.

## Connect a shared storage in Zerops GUI

Connect your Nginx static service directly when creating a new shared storage service. Just select your Nginx static service in the **Share with Services** block on the **Add new shared storage service** page.

![connect_shared_storage_1](/img/screenshots/connect_shared_storage_1.png)

To connect the existing shared storage to the Nginx static service, go to the shared storage service detail and select **Shared storage connections**. A list of all your current runtime services will be shown. Select a runtime service and the shared storage will be connected to the selected runtime.

![connect_shared_storage_1](/img/screenshots/connect_shared_storage_2.png)

Zerops will create a new folder `/mnt/[shared storage name]`` in the runtime root folder. E.g. `/mnt/teststorage`for a`teststorage` shared storage. The content of this folder is shared among all containers of the runtime service you've selected. If you select multiple runtimes, the content of the folder will be shared among all containers of selected services.

## Disconnect a shared storage in Zerops GUI

Go to the shared storage service detail and select **Shared storage connections**. A list of all your current runtime services will be shown. Switch off the toggle to disconnect the shared storage from the selected runtime.

:::note
Your runtime service will be automatically restarted when a shared storage is disconnected.
:::

## Create Nginx static service with a shared storage using zCLI

zCLI is the Zerops command-line tool. To create a new Nginx static service via the command-line, follow these steps:

1. [Install & setup zCLI](/references/cli)
2. [Create a project description file](/nginx/how-to/shared-storage#create-a-project-description-file)
3. [Create a project with a Nginx static service and a shared storage](/nginx/how-to/shared-storage#create-a-project-with-a-nginx-service-and-a-shared-storage)

### Create a project description file

Zerops uses a yaml format to describe the project infrastructure.

#### description.yml format

[Read the basics](/nginx/how-to/create#create-a-project-description-file) how to define the Nginx static service using the description.yml.

#### Example with a shared storage

Create a directory `my-project`. Create an `description.yml` file inside the `my-project` directory with following content:

```yml
# basic project data
project:
  # project name
  name: my-project

  # optional: project description
  description: A project with a Nginx and a shared storage

  # optional: project tags
  tags:
    - DEMO
    - ZEROPS

# array of project services
services:
  - # service name
    hostname: teststorage

    # shared storage service has no version
    type: shared-storage

    # mode: HA / NON_HA
    mode: NON_HA

  - # service name
    hostname: app

    # service type and version number in nginx@{version} or nginx@latest format
    type: nginx@latest

    # defines the minimum number of containers for horizontal autoscaling. Max value = 6.
    minContainers: 2

    # defines the maximum number of containers for horizontal autoscaling. Max value = 6.
    maxContainers: 4

    # Mount the shared storage to the Nginx static service
    mount:
      - teststorage
```

The mount attribute accepts an array of shared storage names you want to mount to your runtime service.

### Create a project with a Nginx static service and a shared storage

Follow the article [How to create a project based on the description.yml](/nginx/how-to/create#create-a-project-based-on-the-descriptionyml).
