apps/docs/content/postgresql/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: PostgreSQL overview
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

[PostgreSQL ↗](https://www.postgresql.org/) is a powerful, open source object-relational database system with over 35 years of active development that has earned it a strong reputation for reliability, feature robustness, and performance.

## How to start

It doesn't matter whether it's your first curious introduction to Zerops, you have already mastered the basics and are looking for a tiny detail or inspiration. Below, choose a section that fits your needs:

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/getting-started',
      label: 'New to Zerops?',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['rocket-launch'],
        description: 'There is no better way to start than to try it yourself.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/create',
      label: 'Care for details?',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['academic-cap-solid'],
        description:
          'Dive in all Zerops has to offer for your PostgreSQL application.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio?q=onboarding&type=all&language=&sort=',
      label: 'PostgreSQL recipes',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['github'],
        description:
          'Get inspired by already existing repositories, ready to be imported to Zerops. Filter is applied for simple applications with PostgreSQL, feel free to browse them all.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## Feature Highlights

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/create',
      label: 'Create PostgreSQL service',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['computer-desktop'],
        description:
          'Start with creating a PostgreSQL service using GUI or zCLI.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/create#highly-available',
      label: 'HA mode',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['squares-plus'],
        description: 'Learn how to setup your database to be production-ready.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/create#full-example',
      label: 'Import config file',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['puzzle'],
        description: 'Use an example config file to import your own app.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

### Connect to PostgreSQL service

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/manage',
      label: 'Manage users and databases',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['circle-stack'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/connect#connect-to-postgresql-from-runtime-services-of-the-same-project',
      label: 'Connect from the same project',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['link'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/connect#connect-to-postgresql-in-zerops-remotely',
      label: 'Connect remotely',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['globe-europe'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

### Others

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/scale',
      label: 'Scale postgresql service',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['adjustments'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/export-import-data',
      label: 'Export and import data',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['arrow-down-tray'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## When in doubt, reach out

Don't know how to start or got stuck during the process? You might not be the first one, visit the FAQ section to find out.

In case you haven't found an answer (and also if you have), we and our community are looking forward to hearing from you on Discord.

Have you build something that others might find useful? Don't hesitate to share your knowledge!

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/faq',
      label: 'FAQ',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['chat-bubble-left-right'],
        description: 'Most common questions in one place.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54',
      label: 'Discord',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['discord'],
        description:
          'Join our core team and Zerops community on Discord. Ask questions and share your tips with other members.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## Popular Guides

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/cli',
      label: 'zCLI',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['command-line'],
        description:
          'Get even more out of Zerops with the zCLI command line tool.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/vpn',
      label: 'Zerops VPN',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['globe-europe'],
        description: 'Connect to your services easily with Zerops VPN.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

feat: new descriptions (#79)
* chore: title & description props

* chore: add description to getting started

* chore: add seo descriptions to faq pages

* chore: add description for build & deploy pipeline

* chore: add seo descriptions to connect pages

* chore: seo description for getting started pages

* chore: seo descriptions for overview pages

* chore: new seo descriptions

* chore: more seo descriptions

* some more descs

* some more descriptions

* delete mongodb & add new descs

* new descs

* some more new descs

* more desc changes

* more changes to descs

* more descs

* more descs

* desc seo

* new desc seo

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* seo descs

* more seo descs

* more seo descs

* Lots of changes

* Update sidebars.js

apps/docs/content/postgresql/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: PostgreSQL overview
description: Learn about working with PostgresSql with ease on Zerops.
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';

[PostgreSQL ↗](https://www.postgresql.org/) is a powerful, open source object-relational database system with over 35 years of active development that has earned it a strong reputation for reliability, feature robustness, and performance.

## How to start

It doesn't matter whether it's your first curious introduction to Zerops, you have already mastered the basics and are looking for a tiny detail or inspiration. Below, choose a section that fits your needs:

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/getting-started',
      label: 'New to Zerops?',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['rocket-launch'],
        description: 'There is no better way to start than to try it yourself.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/create',
      label: 'Care for details?',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['academic-cap-solid'],
        description:
          'Dive in all Zerops has to offer for your PostgreSQL application.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://github.com/zeropsio?q=onboarding&type=all&language=&sort=',
      label: 'PostgreSQL recipes',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['github'],
        description:
          'Get inspired by already existing repositories, ready to be imported to Zerops. Filter is applied for simple applications with PostgreSQL, feel free to browse them all.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## Feature Highlights

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/create',
      label: 'Create PostgreSQL service',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['computer-desktop'],
        description:
          'Start with creating a PostgreSQL service using GUI or zCLI.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/create#highly-available',
      label: 'HA mode',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['squares-plus'],
        description: 'Learn how to setup your database to be production-ready.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/create#full-example',
      label: 'Import config file',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['puzzle'],
        description: 'Use an example config file to import your own app.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

### Connect to PostgreSQL service

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/manage',
      label: 'Manage users and databases',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['circle-stack'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/connect#connect-to-postgresql-from-runtime-services-of-the-same-project',
      label: 'Connect from the same project',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['link'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/connect#connect-to-postgresql-in-zerops-remotely',
      label: 'Connect remotely',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['globe-europe'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

### Others

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/scale',
      label: 'Scale postgresql service',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['adjustments'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/how-to/export-import-data',
      label: 'Export and import data',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['arrow-down-tray'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## When in doubt, reach out

Don't know how to start or got stuck during the process? You might not be the first one, visit the FAQ section to find out.

In case you haven't found an answer (and also if you have), we and our community are looking forward to hearing from you on Discord.

Have you build something that others might find useful? Don't hesitate to share your knowledge!

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/postgresql/faq',
      label: 'FAQ',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['chat-bubble-left-right'],
        description: 'Most common questions in one place.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54',
      label: 'Discord',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['discord'],
        description:
          'Join our core team and Zerops community on Discord. Ask questions and share your tips with other members.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## Popular Guides

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/cli',
      label: 'zCLI',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['command-line'],
        description:
          'Get even more out of Zerops with the zCLI command line tool.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/vpn',
      label: 'Zerops VPN',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['globe-europe'],
        description: 'Connect to your services easily with Zerops VPN.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>
