apps/docs/content/frameworks/laravel.mdx, before:

---
title: Laravel
description: Laravel
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';
import CustomCard from '@site/src/components/CustomCard';
import DeployButton from '@site/src/components/DeployButton';

[Laravel ↗](https://laravel.com) is a PHP framework for building robust, full-stack web applications. Whether you prefer pure PHP with Livewire or want to use Laravel with React/Vue using Inertia, Laravel provides a complete toolkit for production-ready applications for every developer.


<CustomCard title="Deploy a Production-Ready Laravel Jetstream Application" emoji="🚀">
  This is a full-stack Laravel Jetstream application — an advanced starter kit — preconfigured with everything you need: mailpit for email testing, Valkey (Redis) for session management, object storage for files, and PostgreSQL as your database.
  <DeployButton link="laravel" badgeWidth="200" />
</CustomCard>



## How to start

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/create',
      label: 'Create PHP Nginx service',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['laravel'],
        description: 'Start with creating a PHP Nginx service for Laravel.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/env-variables',
      label: 'Manage Environment Variables',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['puzzle'],
        description:
          'Manage environment variables for your Laravel application.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/automatic-scaling',
      label: 'Automatic Scaling',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['server'],
        description:
          'Set up scaling of your Laravel application so that it runs smoothly while using only necessary resources.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

{" "}

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/logs',
      label: 'Access Logs',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['sparkles'],
        description: 'Access logs for your Laravel application.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/dev-to-prod',
      label: 'Development to Production',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['sparkles-solid'],
        description: 'Deploy your Laravel application from development to production.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

-----

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/create',
      label: 'Create PHP Nginx service',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['Heart'],
        description: 'Start with creating a PHP Nginx service for Laravel.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/build-pipeline#add-zeropsyml-to-your-repository',
      label: 'zerops.yml',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['puzzle'],
        description:
          'See a full example of zerops.yml file to create your own app.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/automatic-scaling',
      label: 'Database Backups',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['puzzle'],
        description:
          'Set up scaling of your Java application so that it runs smoothly while using only necessary resources.',
      },
    },
        {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/scaling',
      label: 'Manage Redis',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['adjustments'],
        description:
          'Set up scaling of your Java application so that it runs smoothly while using only necessary resources.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

{" "}

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/cron',
      label: 'Scheduled Jobs & CRON',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['adjustments'],
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/database-migrations',
      label: 'Database Migrations',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['pencil-square-solid'],
      },
    },
        {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/public-access',
      label: 'Manage Public Access',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['globe-europe'],
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## When in doubt, reach out

Don't know how to start or got stuck during the process? You might not be the first one, visit the FAQ section to find out.

In case you haven't found an answer (and also if you have), we and our community are looking forward to hearing from you on Discord.

Have you build something that others might find useful? Don't hesitate to share your knowledge!

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/faq',
      label: 'FAQ',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['chat-bubble-left-right'],
        description: 'Most common questions in one place.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54',
      label: 'Discord',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['discord'],
        description:
          'Join our core team and Zerops community on Discord. Ask questions and share your tips with other members.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## Popular Guides

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/cli',
      label: 'zCLI',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['command-line'],
        description:
          'Get even more out of Zerops with the zCLI command line tool.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/vpn',
      label: 'Zerops VPN',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['globe-europe'],
        description: 'Connect to your services easily with Zerops VPN.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/ssh',
      label: 'SSH',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['command-line'],
        description: 'Connect to your services using SSH with Zerops VPN.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/zeropsyml',
      label: 'Full zerops.yml configuration',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['puzzle'],
        description: 'See full list of parameters for zerops.yml configuration.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

fix / add image and fix /laravel

apps/docs/content/frameworks/laravel.mdx, after:

---
title: Laravel
description: Laravel
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import Icons from '@theme/Icon';
import LargeCardList from '@site/src/components/LargeCardList';
import LargeCard from '@site/src/components/LargeCard';
import CustomCard from '@site/src/components/CustomCard';
import DeployButton from '@site/src/components/DeployButton';

[Laravel ↗](https://laravel.com) is a PHP framework for building robust, full-stack web applications. Whether you prefer pure PHP with Livewire or want to use Laravel with React/Vue using Inertia, Laravel provides a complete toolkit for production-ready applications for every developer.


<CustomCard title="Deploy a Production-Ready Laravel Jetstream Application" emoji="🚀">
  This is a full-stack Laravel Jetstream application — an advanced starter kit — preconfigured with everything you need: mailpit for email testing, Valkey (Redis) for session management, object storage for files, and PostgreSQL as your database.
  <DeployButton link="laravel" badgeWidth="200" />
</CustomCard>



## How to start

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/create',
      label: 'Create PHP Nginx service',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['laravel'],
        description: 'Start with creating a PHP Nginx service for Laravel.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/env-variables',
      label: 'Manage Environment Variables',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['puzzle'],
        description:
          'Manage environment variables for your Laravel application.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/automatic-scaling',
      label: 'Automatic Scaling',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['server'],
        description:
          'Set up scaling of your Laravel application so that it runs smoothly while using only necessary resources.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

{" "}

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/logs',
      label: 'Access Logs',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['sparkles'],
        description: 'Access logs for your Laravel application.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/dev-to-prod',
      label: 'Development to Production',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['sparkles-solid'],
        description: 'Deploy your Laravel application from development to production.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

-----

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/create',
      label: 'Create PHP Nginx service',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['Heart'],
        description: 'Start with creating a PHP Nginx service for Laravel.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/build-pipeline#add-zeropsyml-to-your-repository',
      label: 'zerops.yml',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['puzzle'],
        description:
          'See a full example of zerops.yml file to create your own app.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/automatic-scaling',
      label: 'Database Backups',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['puzzle'],
        description:
          'Set up scaling of your Laravel application so that it runs smoothly while using only necessary resources.',
      },
    },
        {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/how-to/scaling',
      label: 'Manage Redis',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['adjustments'],
        description:
          'Set up scaling of your Laravel application so that it runs smoothly while using only necessary resources.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

{" "}

<DocCardList
  colSize={4}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/cron',
      label: 'Scheduled Jobs & CRON',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['adjustments'],
        description:
          'Set up Scheduled Jobs & CRON for your Laravel application.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/database-migrations',
      label: 'Database Migrations',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['pencil-square-solid'],
        description:
          'Set up Database Migrations for your Laravel application.',
      },
    },
        {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/frameworks/laravel/public-access',
      label: 'Manage Public Access',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['globe-europe'],
        description:
          'Manage public access of your Laravel application.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## When in doubt, reach out

Don't know how to start or got stuck during the process? You might not be the first one, visit the FAQ section to find out.

In case you haven't found an answer (and also if you have), we and our community are looking forward to hearing from you on Discord.

Have you build something that others might find useful? Don't hesitate to share your knowledge!

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/java/faq',
      label: 'FAQ',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['chat-bubble-left-right'],
        description: 'Most common questions in one place.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: 'https://discord.com/invite/WDvCZ54',
      label: 'Discord',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['discord'],
        description:
          'Join our core team and Zerops community on Discord. Ask questions and share your tips with other members.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>

## Popular Guides

<DocCardList
  colSize={6}
  items={[
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/cli',
      label: 'zCLI',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['command-line'],
        description:
          'Get even more out of Zerops with the zCLI command line tool.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/vpn',
      label: 'Zerops VPN',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['globe-europe'],
        description: 'Connect to your services easily with Zerops VPN.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/ssh',
      label: 'SSH',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['command-line'],
        description: 'Connect to your services using SSH with Zerops VPN.',
      },
    },
    {
      type: 'link',
      href: '/references/zeropsyml',
      label: 'Full zerops.yml configuration',
      customProps: {
        icon: Icons['puzzle'],
        description: 'See full list of parameters for zerops.yml configuration.',
      },
    },
  ]}
/>
